1 
 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market 
Committee 
November 6–7, 2024 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Commi ttee and the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System was held in the offices of the Boar d of Governors on Wednesday, November 6, 2024, 
at 10:00 a.m. and continued on Thur sday, November 7, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.1 
Developments in Financial Market s and Open Market Operations 
The manager turned first to a review of developmen ts in financial markets.  Nominal Treasury yields 
rose notably over the period; factors driving the in creases in yields included  stronger-than-expected 
data releases and monetary policy  communications that were interpreted as signaling a more gradual 
pace of policy easing than previously thought.  The rise at short maturities reflected increases in both 
real yields and inflation compensation, while the rise  at longer maturities was primarily driven by 
increases in real yields.  Broad equity prices also rose  over the period, likely reflecting in part the solid 
incoming data and consequent lower odds of a we akening in the economic outlook.  The VIX, which 
measures 30-day option-implied volatility of broa d equity prices, had moved higher in the period 
leading up to the November elections and then decreased following Election Day. 
The manager noted that the federal funds rate path had shifted up notably over the period, as 
measured by both the options-implied modal path an d the futures-implied average path.  Although the 
futures-implied path remained below the options-impl ied path at longer horizons, the gap between the 
two paths narrowed, likely reflecting market participants’ judgment  that risks had become less skewed 
toward the downside.  In the Open Market Desk’s Survey of Primary Dealers and Survey of Market 
Participants, a large majority of respondents had a modal expectation of a 25 basis point cut at this 
meeting and another 25 basis point cut at the December meeting.  Further out, there was 
considerably more uncertainty.  For example, al though the mean of the average respondent’s 
probability distribution for the federal funds rate at the trough of this easing cycle was close to the 
average respondent’s expected longer-run leve l of the federal funds rate, respondents placed 
substantial weight on a wide range of outcomes. 
The manager also discussed balance sheet policy expectations.  The average of the survey responses 
indicated that the modal expectation regarding th e timing of the end of balance sheet runoff had 
 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the “F OMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System is re ferenced as the “Board” in these minutes. 
2    November 6–7, 2024 
 
shifted a bit later, to May 2025.  These responses remained dispersed, though roughly two-thirds of 
respondents expected an end to runoff in either th e first or the second quarter of 2025.  Survey 
results indicated that respondents expected balance sheet runoff to continue alongside rate cuts for 
several more months; the surveys therefore sugg ested that the Committee’s two policy tools—the 
policy rate and the balance sheet—were no t seen as working at cross-purposes. 
Regarding international developments, the manager no ted that policy rate expectations for the year-
end declined in most advanced fore ign economies (AFEs), with the exce ption of Australia and the U.K.  
The widening of differentials with U.S. interest rates had likely contributed to an increase in the trade-
weighted dollar index, which reac hed its highest level this year. 
The manager then turned to money markets and Desk operations.  Unsecured overnight rates 
remained stable over the intermeeting period.  In secured funding markets, rates on overnight 
repurchase agreements (repo) increased sharply an d were volatile around the September quarter-end 
but, on other dates, generally stayed just above th e rate offered at the overnight reverse repurchase 
agreement (ON RRP) facility.  Market contacts attrib uted the pressures seen around the quarter-end to 
a combination of typical balance sheet constraints associated with financial reporting dates and a 
large net settlement of Treasury coupon securities  that took place on the same day.  Overall, 
developments in the repo market at the end of September and in early October appeared to conform 
with the typical quarter-end pattern, although the sp ike in repo rates observed on those days was the 
largest in the post-pandemic period. 
The September quarter-end also saw the first non-test use of the standing repo facility (SRF), with two 
counterparties borrowing $2.6 billion.  The manager noted that the relatively small utilization was not 
surprising, as repo rates in the noncentrally cleare d segment of the triparty repo market—in which the 
facility operates—did not exceed the SRF rate for th e most part.  The manager also observed that there 
was a substantial volume of trades taking place above the SRF rate around quarter-end in other 
segments of the repo market.  The manager indicate d that, with dealers typically earning a spread in 
their intermediation activity, this outcome wa s not surprising.  The manager suggested that 
considerations related to market structure also helped explain why repo rates were above the SRF 
rate in those segments at quarter-end.  Overall, the manager judged that the SRF performed about in 
line with the Desk’s expectations. 
Usage of the ON RRP facility declined about $140 bi llion over the intermeeting period.  This decline 
appeared to be driven primarily by additional ne t Treasury bill supply in recent weeks, which made 
Treasury bill yields more attractive.  The manage r also noted that, of late, the largest ON RRP 
participants had substantially reduced their participat ion at the facility, leading to a less concentrated 
configuration of ON RRP take-up than had been the case for some time. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    3 
 
Over the intermeeting period, pricing in the federal fu nds market continued to be  insensitive to day-to-
day changes in the supply of reserves.  The manage r noted that this outcome was consistent with 
reserves remaining abundant and that various ot her indicators pointed to the same conclusion. 
The staff also provided an informational briefing to the Committee on two co nsiderations related to 
the management of the balance sheet over the near  term.  The first consideration focused on the 
possibility of a technical adjustment to the ON RRP  offering rate.  The staff reviewed developments 
with respect to the usage of the ON RRP facility.  The staff also noted that lowering the ON RRP 
offering rate 5 basis points would align the ON RRP  offering rate with the bottom of the target range 
for the federal funds rate and would probably put some downward pressure on other money market 
rates. 
The second consideration fo cused on the possible implications fo r the composition of Federal Reserve 
liabilities stemming from the federal debt limit potentially being reinstated in 2025.  The staff 
presentation highlighted the fact that, should this  event occur, a drawdown in the Treasury General 
Account (TGA) balances would increase the sum of reserves and ON RRP balances, and that a 
subsequent rebuilding of TGA balances would have  the reverse effect.  The staff noted that these 
substantial shifts could mask the effects of ongoin g balance sheet runoff on money market conditions 
and pose challenges in assessing reserve conditions. 
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk ’s domestic transactions over the intermeeting 
period.  There were no intervention operations in  foreign currencies for the System’s account during 
the intermeeting period. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information available at the time of the meetin g indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) 
had expanded solidly so far this year.  The pace of  job gains had moderated since the beginning of the 
year, and the unemployment rate had moved up, on ne t, but remained low.  Consumer price inflation 
was well below its year-earlier pace. 
Consumer price inflation—as meas ured by the 12-month change in  the price index for personal 
consumption expenditures (PCE)— had moved lower in August and September.  Total PCE price 
inflation was 2.1 percent in September, and core  PCE price inflation—which excludes changes in 
energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.7  percent. 
Recent data suggested that labor market conditions remained solid.   Average monthly nonfarm payroll 
gains in the third quarter were similar to those seen  in the second quarter.  October job gains were 
held down noticeably by the effects of strikes and hurricanes.  The unemployment rate had edged 
down slightly since August and was 4.1 percent in October; the labor force participation rate also 
4    November 6–7, 2024 
 
ticked down over this period, and the employment -to-population ratio was unchanged on net.  The 
unemployment rates for African Americans and fo r Hispanics moved down; both rates were above 
those for Asians and for Whites.  The ratio of job vacancies to unemployment was 1.1 in October, 
slightly lower than its level just before the pandem ic.  Average hourly earnin gs for all employees rose 
4 percent over the 12 months ending in October, down  0.3 percentage point relative to a year earlier, 
and the 12-month change in the employment cost in dex of hourly compensati on for private industry 
workers was 3.6 percent in September, down 0.7 percentage point from its year-earlier pace. 
According to the advance release, real GDP posted a solid gain in the third quarter that was similar to 
its second-quarter pace.  Real private domestic  final purchases—which comprises PCE and private 
fixed investment and which often provides a be tter signal than GDP of underlying economic 
momentum—rose slightly faster than real GDP in the third quarter.  Net exports were a drag on third-
quarter real GDP growth, as a brisk rise in expo rts was outpaced by even faster import growth. 
Real GDP growth in foreign economie s picked up somewhat in the third quarter, including in the euro 
area and, especially, Mexico.  In China, growth also  firmed in the third quar ter, and there were signs 
that recent fiscal stimulus measures were starting  to shore up confidence.  That said, more recent 
indicators, such as purchasing managers indexes (PMIs), continued to suggest ongoing weakness in foreign manufacturing, in part due to mo netary policies still being restrictive. 
Inflation abroad continued to ease.  In the adva nced AFEs excluding Japan, 12-month headline 
inflation slowed to near or below target levels, mainly reflecting the rapid pass-through of lower energy 
prices earlier this year.  At the same time, services  inflation remained high in these economies.  In 
China, core inflation fell to  its lowest level since the Global Financ ial Crisis.  By contrast, in some Latin 
American countries, notably Brazil, inflation in creased, partly because of renewed food price 
pressures. 
Many foreign central banks eased policy during the intermeeting period, including the Bank of Canada 
and the European Central Bank among the AFEs an d the central banks of Co lombia, Mexico, Korea, 
the Philippines, and Thailand among the emerging market economies. 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
The expected path of the federal funds rate implied by financial market quotes  increased notably over 
the intermeeting period amid stronger-than-expected  data releases pertaining to economic activity, 
somewhat higher-than-expected readings on inflatio n, and comments by some FOMC participants that 
were interpreted as signaling a more gradual approach  to recalibrating the stance of monetary policy.  
Consistent with a higher expected path of the fede ral funds rate and a shift in investors’ perceptions 
of the balance of risks, nominal Treasury yields across the maturity spectrum increased significantly.  
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    5 
 
The increase in longer-term yields appeared to be  mostly attributable to higher term premiums—
consistent with investors’ perceived shift in the ba lance of risks away from outcomes characterized by 
slower real GDP growth and lower inflation.  Market -based measures of inflation compensation moved 
up over the period from relatively low levels, wh ile survey-based measures of longer-term inflation 
expectations were little changed.  These measures continued to suggest an expectation that inflation 
would return over time to the Committee’s 2 percent objective. 
Despite higher yields, and amid greater confiden ce about the growth outlook and somewhat better-
than-expected corporate earn ings reports, broad equity price inde xes increased notably, on net, over 
the intermeeting period, and cred it spreads for both corporate an d municipal bonds narrowed.  The 
VIX rose appreciably, reportedly reflecting uncert ainty about the outcome of  the U.S. presidential 
election and escalating tensions in the Middle East .  However, it subsequently more than retraced 
those increases, ending the period moderately lowe r and slightly below the median of its historical 
distribution. 
Conditions in U.S. short-term funding markets remain ed generally stable over the intermeeting period, 
with the lowering of the target range for the federal funds rate in September fully passing through to 
both secured and unsecured reference rates.  Rates in secured markets exhibited significant but temporary upward pressure around the Septembe r quarter-end, driven by typical quarter-end 
dynamics and a large net Treasury coupon settlem ent.  Over the intermeeting period, government 
money market funds (MMFs) continued to increase a llocations to Treasury bills and private repo in 
light of the generally favorable rates on these in struments; usage of the ON RRP facility declined 
significantly over the period. 
Over the intermeeting period, foreign financial market s were driven by greater investor confidence in 
the U.S. economic outlook, foreign economic data releases, and political de velopments.  Higher U.S. 
Treasury yields spilled over to foreign yields across  the curve, though softer-than-expected inflation 
and PMI survey data weighed on short-term yields in the euro area.  In the U.K., yields increased 
following the release of the new government’s budget  as market participants processed the budget’s 
impact on projected inflation and gilt issuance.  Th e broad dollar index increased significantly, as U.S. 
interest rates rose more than foreign rates.  In  China, the announcement of new policy stimulus 
measures boosted domestic risky asset prices, with limited spillovers to other markets; the 
announcements also drove notable flows into China-focused investment funds.  Most European equity price indexes decreased somewhat, while Japanese and Canadian equity ma rkets rose moderately. 
In domestic credit markets, borrowing costs for households and most businesses rose over the 
intermeeting period from already elevated levels, prim arily reflecting increases in longer-term Treasury 
yields.  Rates on 30-year fixed-rate conforming residential mortgages rose, while interest rates on 
6    November 6–7, 2024 
 
credit cards remained relatively unchanged at near hi storical highs.  By contrast, interest rates on new 
auto loans edged down but rem ained elevated.  Meanwhile, in terest rates on commercial and 
industrial (C&I) loans and small busi ness loans continued to be elevated .  Yields also rose on an array 
of fixed-income securities, including commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), investment- and 
speculative-grade corporate bonds, and residential mortgage-backed securities. 
Over the intermeeting period, financing through capital markets and nonb ank lenders remained 
broadly available for public corporations and for la rge and midsize private corporations.  For smaller 
firms, however, credit availability re mained relatively tight.  In the October Senior Loan Officer Opinion 
Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), bank s, on net, reported m aintaining their lending 
standards and most terms basically unchanged for C&I loans.2  Meanwhile, net growth in C&I loan 
balances remained subdued in August and September.   With respect to commercial real estate (CRE) 
loans, banks in the October SLOOS reported, on ba lance, basically unchanged lending standards for 
all categories of CRE loans, the first survey since early 2022 in which standards on CRE loans of every 
category have not tightened.  Bank CRE loan balances  were flat in the third quarter, partly reflecting 
lending standards staying on the tighter end of the range prevailing since 2005. 
Credit remained available for most consumers, al though consumer credit availability continued to 
tighten moderately through September.  Credit card balances expanded modestly in the third quarter, 
while auto credit growth continued to slow throug h August.  In the October SLOOS, respondents, on 
net, indicated that standards for credit cards tigh tened, but most of them reported no change in 
lending standards for auto loans.  Access to cred it in the residential mortgage market was little 
changed, on balance, and continue d to depend on borrowers’ credit risk attributes.  In the October 
SLOOS, banks, on net, moderately eased residential lending standards. 
Credit quality remained solid in the cases of large and midsize firms, most home mortgage borrowers, 
and municipalities, but it continued to deteriorate in other sectors.  The credit quality of nonfinancial 
firms borrowing in the corporate bond and levera ged loan markets remained stable.  Delinquency 
rates on loans to small businesses remained modest ly above pre-pandemic levels.  Credit quality in 
the CRE market deteriorated further, with the averag e delinquency rate on loans in CMBS pools rising 
further in September, driven largely by office loans.   Regarding household credit quality, delinquency 
rates on most residential mortgage s were largely unchanged in Sept ember at about their historical 
low.  Delinquency rates for credit cards increased a bit further in the third quarter, while delinquency 
rates on auto loans inched down. 
 
2 The SLOOS results reported are based on ba nks’ responses, weighted by each bank’s outstanding loans in the respective loan 
category, and might therefore differ from the results reported in the published SLOOS, which ar e based on banks’ unweighted 
responses.  
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    7 
 
The staff provided an update on its assessment of th e stability of the U.S. financial system and, on 
balance, continued to characterize the system’s fina ncial vulnerabilities as notable.  The staff judged 
that asset valuation pressures were elevated, with estimates of risk premiums across key markets low 
by historical standards.  House pr ices remained elevated relative to  fundamentals such as rents.  
Although the pace of decline in CRE prices slow ed, fundamentals continued to deteriorate across 
multiple categories. 
Vulnerabilities associated with business and ho usehold debt were characterized as moderate.  
Nonfinancial business leverage was elevated by histor ical standards, but the ability of publicly traded 
firms to service their debt remain ed strong, supported by robust ea rnings and the low interest rates 
that firms continued to enjoy on the portion of fixed-rate debt issued early in the pandemic.  That said, 
the fraction of private firm debt  having very low interest covera ge ratios continued to increase, 
pointing to further deterioration in the balance sh eets of riskier firms.  Household balance sheets 
remained solid overall, as aggregate home equity remained high and delinquencies on mortgage loans 
continued to be low. 
Vulnerabilities associated with leverage in the fi nancial sector were characterized as notable.  
Regulatory capital ratios in the banking sector rem ained high; however, banks continued to hold large 
quantities of long-duration assets, leaving them mo re exposed than usual to an unexpected rise in 
longer-term interest rates.  In the nonbank sector, leverage at hedge funds remained high, partly on 
account of the prevalence of the Treasury cash–futur es basis trade.  Life insurers’ leverage remained 
somewhat elevated, and they continued to maintain la rge holdings of risky and illiquid securities.  By 
contrast, broker-dealer leverage remained low, as th eir capital increased in line with their assets.  
Vulnerabilities associated with fu nding risks were also characterize d as notable.  Assets in prime 
MMFs and other runnable cash-management vehicles re mained near historical highs.  Life insurers’ 
greater reliance on nontraditional liabilities sugge sted that adverse shocks to the industry could 
trigger substantial funding pressures at these firms. 
Staff Economic Outlook 
The staff forecast at the November meeting called for economic conditions to remain solid.  Relative 
to September, the real GDP growth projection for 2024 as a whole was higher, reflecting stronger-
than-expected spending and labor market indicators .  The staff had revised up their assessment of 
potential output growth in light of the upward revisi ons to productivity implied by the recent annual 
update of the national income and product acco unts.  From 2025 to 2027, real GDP growth was 
expected to be slightly slower than potential output  growth, resulting in a very small increase in the 
unemployment rate. 
8    November 6–7, 2024 
 
The staff’s inflation forecast for 2024 was slightly  higher than the one prepared for the previous 
meeting, reflecting incoming data.  Thereafter, the outlook was similar to the previous projection:  Both 
total and core PCE price inflation were expected to  decline further as supply and demand in labor and 
product markets continued to move into better ba lance; by 2026, total an d core inflation were 
expected to be 2  percent. 
The staff continued to view the unce rtainty around the baseline projection as close to the average over 
the past 20  years.  The staff had reduced its assessment  of the downward risks to the baseline 
forecast for economic activity in light of incoming data.  Nevertheless, the sta ff judged that these risks 
were somewhat skewed to the downside:  Although cu rrent labor market conditions remained solid, it 
was possible that the easing in the labor market seen over the past two years could give way to a 
more pronounced slowdown in economic activity.  Th e risks around the inflatio n forecast were seen as 
roughly balanced. 
Participants’ Views on Current Cond itions and the Economic Outlook 
In their discussion of inflation developments, part icipants continued to observe that inflation had 
eased substantially from its peak, although core in flation remained somewhat  elevated.  Almost all 
participants judged that, though month-to-month movements would remain volatile, incoming data 
generally remained consistent wi th inflation returning sustainably  to 2 percent.  Participants 
commented that disinflationary pr ogress had been seen across a broad range of core goods and 
services prices.  Notably, in both the core goods and nonhousing services categories, prices were now 
increasing at rates close to those seen during earl ier periods of price stability.  Many participants 
noted that the slowing in these components of core  inflation corroborated reports received from their 
business contacts that firms were more reluctant to increase prices, as consumers appeared to be 
more price sensitive and were increasingly seekin g discounts.  Some part icipants remarked that 
although increases in housing services prices rem ained somewhat elevated, th ey continued to expect 
that these increases would slow, as the more subd ued pace of rent increases faced by new tenants 
would eventually be reflected furt her in housing services prices. 
With regard to the outlook for in flation, participants indicated th at they remained confident that 
inflation was moving sustainably to ward 2 percent, although a couple noted the possibility that the 
process could take longer than previously expected .  A few participants remarked that insofar as 
recent robust increases in real  GDP reflected favorable supply developments, the strength of 
economic activity was unlikely to be a source of up ward inflation pressures.  Participants cited various 
factors likely to put continuing downward pressure  on inflation, including waning business pricing 
power, the Committee’s still-restrict ive monetary policy stance, and we ll-anchored longer-term inflation 
expectations.  Several participants noted that no minal wage growth had cont inued to move down and 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    9 
 
that the wage premium available to job switchers had diminished.  In addition, some participants 
observed that, with supply and demand in the labor market being roughly in balance and in light of 
recent productivity gains, wage increases were unlike ly to be a source of inflationary pressure in the 
near future. 
In discussing labor market developments, participants  generally viewed recent readings as consistent 
with labor market conditions remaining solid, alth ough labor strikes and the devastating hurricanes 
had been important sources of temporary fluctuat ions in the employment data.  Participants 
continued to cite declines in job vacancies, the qu its rate, and turnover as consistent with a gradual 
easing in labor demand.  Some part icipants reported that businesses were becoming more selective in 
hiring as they faced larger pools of more qualified job applicants, and job appl icants were more willing 
to accept less accommodative work arrangements and more moderate wage offers.  Participants 
generally noted, however, that there was no sign of rapid deterioration in labor market conditions, with 
layoffs remaining low.  A few partic ipants cited business contacts who were using attrition, instead of 
layoffs, to manage the size of their workforce.  Some participants observed that the evaluation of 
underlying trends in labor market developments had continued to be challenging— with difficulties in 
measuring the effects of immigration on labor suppl y, revisions to data, and the effects of natural 
disasters and labor strikes among the factors cite d as complicating this evaluation—and that 
assessments of the outlook for the labor market we re associated with considerable uncertainty.  
Participants generally judged that current labor ma rket conditions were broa dly consistent with the 
Committee’s longer-run goal of maximum employment. 
With regard to the outlook for th e labor market, participants generally anticipated that with an 
appropriate recalibration of the Co mmittee’s monetary policy stance ov er time, the labor market would 
remain solid.  Participants generally agreed that labor market indicators merited close monitoring.  
Some participants still saw elevated risks that the labor market could deteriorate, though many 
participants saw the risk of an ex cessive cooling in the labor market  as having diminished somewhat 
since the Committee’s September meeting. 
Participants observed that recent data on econom ic activity and consumer spending were largely 
stronger than anticipated, and they assessed that  economic activity had continued to expand at a 
solid pace and consumer spending remained strong .  Participants remarked  that consumption had 
been supported by a solid labor market, rising re al wages, and elevated household wealth.  Many 
participants observed that recent upward revisions in data on household income and the saving rate  
had made these series’ behavior more consistent wi th the strength in consumer spending.  However, 
several participants cautioned th at low- and moderate-income hous eholds continued to experience 
financial strains, which could damp their spending.  A couple of participants cited recent increases in 
rates of delinquencies on credit card borrowing and automobile loans as signs of such strains. 
10    November 6–7, 2024 
 
Regarding the business sector, a few particip ants noted that favorable aggregate supply 
developments—including increases in labor supply, business investment, and productivity—continued 
to support solid expansion of business activity.  A couple of participants remarked that there was 
considerable uncertainty about the durability of rece nt rates of increase in productivity.  Although a 
few participants attributed some of the productivity gains to potentially transitory factors—such as one-
time efficiency gains in response to earlier labor shortages—or the possible underestimation of labor 
inputs, some participants highlighted more durabl e factors, such as new business formation and 
investment, as well as the integration into the wo rkplace of technological advances.  A couple of 
participants discussed some of these recent trends , noting especially possible implications of the 
expanded use of artificial intelligence in the work place.  Several participants indicated that their 
District contacts repo rted larger corporations and firms in sect ors like financial services, construction, 
professional services, and technology as having a generally more optimistic outlook than smaller 
businesses or firms in the manufacturing sector.  Se veral participants remarked that the agricultural 
sector continued to face significant strains du e to low crop prices and high input costs. 
In participants’ evaluation of the risks and uncertainties associated with the economic outlook, upside 
risks to the inflation outlook were seen as little changed, while downside risks to employment and 
growth were seen as having decreased somewhat.  Among the upside risks to inflation cited by 
participants were the possibility of sudden disrup tions in global supply chains due to geopolitical 
developments, a larger-than-anticipated easing in  financial conditions, stronger-than-expected 
consumption, more-persistent shelter price increases, or sharp rises in insurance charges for health, 
autos, or homes.  Some participants pointed to various downside risks to economic activity and 
employment, including weaker global growth, shar ply worsening financing conditions due to an 
escalation of geopolitical tensions or a sizable as set price correction, or an unwelcome weakening of 
the labor market.  Almost all participants judged the risks to the attainment of their dual-mandate 
objectives of maximum employment and pric e stability to be roughly in balance. 
In their discussion of financial stability, partic ipants who commented not ed vulnerabilities to the 
financial system that they assessed warranted monito ring.  A couple of participants observed that the 
banking system was sound but that there continued to  be potential risks asso ciated with unrealized 
losses on bank assets.  Many participants discus sed vulnerabilities associat ed with CRE exposures, 
focusing on risks in the office sector.  A few of th ese participants noted signs that the deterioration of 
conditions in this sector of the CRE market migh t be lessening.  A couple  of participants noted 
concerns about asset valuation pressures in other markets.  Some participants commented on cyber 
risks that could impair the operation of financial in stitutions, financial infrastructure, and, potentially, 
the overall economy; these participants noted, in particular, vulnerabilities that could emanate from 
third-party service providers.  A couple of particip ants also mentioned third- party service providers in 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    11 
 
the context of risks associated with brokered and reciprocal deposit arrangements.  Several 
participants noted that leverage in  the market for Treasury securiti es remained a risk and commented 
that it would be important to monitor developm ents regarding the market’s resilience.  A few 
participants discussed vulnerabilities posed by the gro wth of private credit and potential links to banks 
and other financial institutions.  A couple of partic ipants commented on the fi nancial condition of low- 
and moderate-income households that have ex hausted their savings and the importance of 
monitoring rising delinquency rates on credit cards an d auto loans.  A couple of participants remarked 
on the successful implementation of the Securiti es and Exchange Commission’s money fund rules, 
noting that it would reduce financial stability risks posed by domestic MMFs. 
In their consideration of monetary policy at this meeting, participan ts noted that inflation had made 
progress toward the Committee’s objective but re mained somewhat elevated.  Participants also 
observed that recent indicators su ggested that economic activity ha d continued to expand at a solid 
pace, labor market conditions had generally eased since earlier in the year, and the unemployment 
rate had moved up but remained low.  Almost all pa rticipants judged that the risks to achieving the 
Committee's employment and inflation goals were ro ughly in balance.  In support of the Committee’s 
goals, all participants viewed it as appropriate to  lower the target range for the federal funds rate by 
25 basis points to 4½ to 4¾ percent.  Participants observed that such a further recalibration of the 
monetary policy stance would help maintain the st rength in the economy and the labor market while 
continuing to enable further progress on inflation.   Participants judged that it was appropriate to 
continue the process of reducing the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings. 
In discussing the outlook for moneta ry policy, participants anticipated that if the data came in about 
as expected, with inflation continuing to move  down sustainably to 2 percent and the economy 
remaining near maximum employment, it would likely be appropriate to move gradually toward a more 
neutral stance of policy over time.  Participants noted that monetary policy decisions were not on a 
preset course and were conditio nal on the evolution of the economy and the implications for the 
economic outlook and the balance of risks; they stre ssed that it would be important for the Committee 
to make this clear as it adjusted its policy stance .  While emphasizing that monetary policy would be 
data dependent, many participants noted the volati lity of recent economic data and highlighted the 
importance of focusing on unde rlying economic trends and the evolution of the outlook when 
assessing incoming informat ion.  Some participants remarked th at, at a future meeting, there would 
be value in the Committee considering a technical adjustment to the rate offered at the ON RRP 
facility to set the rate equal to the bottom of the target range for the federal funds rate, thereby 
bringing the rate back into an alignment that ha d existed when the facility was established as a 
monetary policy tool. 
12    November 6–7, 2024 
 
In discussing risk-management cons iderations that could bear on the outlook for monetary policy, 
almost all participants agreed that risks to achi eving the Committee’s employment and inflation goals 
remained roughly in balance.  Some  participants judged that downside  risks to economic activity or 
the labor market had diminished.  Participants note d that monetary policy would need to balance the 
risks of easing policy too quickly, thereby possibly hi ndering further progress on inflation, with the risks 
of easing policy too slowly, thereby unduly we akening economic activity  and employment.  In 
discussing the positioning of monetary policy in response to potential changes in the balance of risks, 
some participants noted that the Co mmittee could pause its easing of the policy rate and hold it at a 
restrictive level if inflation remained elevated, and some remarked that policy easing could be 
accelerated if the labor market turned down or econ omic activity faltered.  Many participants observed 
that uncertainties concerning the level of the neutra l rate of interest complicated the assessment of 
the degree of restrictiveness of moneta ry policy and, in their view, made  it appropriate to reduce policy 
restraint gradually. 
Committee Policy Actions 
In their discussions of monetary policy for this m eeting, members agreed that economic activity had 
continued to expand at a solid pace.  Labor market conditions had generally eased since earlier in the 
year, and the unemployment rate had moved up but remained low.  Members concurred that inflation 
had made progress toward the Committee’s 2 percent inflation objective but that inflation remained 
somewhat elevated.  In discussing the Committe e’s statement, members agreed that it was 
appropriate to omit the previous reference to th eir greater confidence th at inflation was moving 
sustainably toward 2 percent, as this language  had been specifically associated with the 
commencement of policy easing in September an d therefore was no longer needed.  Almost all 
members agreed that the risks to achieving the Committee’s employment and inflation goals were 
roughly in balance.  Members viewed the economic outlook as uncertain and agreed that they were 
attentive to the risks to both side s of the Committee’s dual mandate. 
In support of its goals, the Committee decided to lo wer the target range for the federal funds rate by 
25 basis points to 4½ to 4¾ percent.  Members conc urred that, in considering additional adjustments 
to the target range for the federal funds rate, they would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving 
outlook, and the balance of risks.  Members agreed  to continue to reduce the Federal Reserve’s 
holdings of Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities.  All members 
agreed that the postmeeting statement should affi rm their strong commitment both to supporting 
maximum employment and to returning inflatio n to the Committee’s 2 percent objective. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate st ance of monetary policy, they would continue to 
monitor the implications of incoming  information for the economic outl ook.  They would be prepared to 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    13 
 
adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriat e if risks emerged that co uld impede the attainment 
of the Committee’s goals.  Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a 
wide range of information, including readings on  labor market conditions , inflation pressures and 
inflation expectations, and financial  and international developments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute tran sactions in the System Open Market Account in 
accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective November 8, 2024, the Federal Op en Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
• Undertake open market operations as necessar y to maintain the federal funds rate in a 
target range of 4½ to 4¾ percent. 
• Conduct standing overnight repurchase agreem ent operations with a minimum bid rate of 
4.75 percent and with an aggregate operation limit of $500 billion. 
• Conduct standing overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering rate 
of 4.55 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per day. 
• Roll over at auction the amount of princi pal payments from the Federal Reserve’s 
holdings of Treasury securities maturing in  each calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$25 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury coup on securities up to this monthly cap and 
Treasury bills to the extent that coupon prin cipal payments are less than the monthly cap. 
• Reinvest the amount of principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
agency debt and agency mort gage-backed securities (MBS) received in each calendar 
month that exceeds a cap of $35 billion per mo nth into Treasury securities to roughly 
match the maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding. 
• Allow modest deviations from stated am ounts for reinvestments, if needed for 
operational reasons. 
• Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transact ions as necessary to facilitate settlement 
of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Recent indicators suggest that economic activi ty has continued to expand at a solid pace.  
Since earlier in the year, labor market co nditions have generally eased, and the 
unemployment rate has moved up but remains lo w.  Inflation has made progress toward the 
Committee’s 2 percent objective but remains somewhat elevated.  
14    November 6–7, 2024 
 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employme nt and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  The Committee judges th at the risks to achieving its employment and 
inflation goals are roughly in balance.  The economic outlook is uncertain, and the Committee 
is attentive to the risks to bo th sides of its dual mandate. 
In support of its goals, the Committee decided to  lower the target range for the federal funds 
rate by ¼ percentage point to 4½ to 4¾ percen t.  In considering additional adjustments to 
the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, 
the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.   The Committee will continue reducing its 
holdings of Treasury securities and agency de bt and agency mortgage-backed securities.  The 
Committee is strongly committed to supportin g maximum employment and returning inflation 
to its 2 percent objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of mone tary policy, the Committee will continue to 
monitor the implications of in coming information for the economic outlook.  The Committee 
would be prepared to adjust the stance of moneta ry policy as appropriate if risks emerge that 
could impede the attainment of the Committ ee’s goals.  The Committee’s assessments will 
take into account a wide range of information, including readin gs on labor market conditions, 
inflation pressures and inflatio n expectations, and financial an d international developments.” 
Voting for this action:   Jerome H. Powell, John C. Williams,  Thomas I. Barkin, Michael S. Barr, 
Raphael W. Bostic, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa  D. Cook, Mary C. Daly, Beth M. Hammack, 
Philip N. Jefferson, Adriana D. Kugler, and Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action:  None .  
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to lower the target range for the federal funds rate to 4½ to 
4¾ percent, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to lower the 
interest rate paid on reserve balances to 4.65 percent, effective November 8, 2024.  The Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to approve a ¼ percentage point 
decrease in the primary credit rate to 4.75 percent, effective November 8, 2024.3 
 
3 In taking this action, the Board approved  requests to establish that rate submitte d by the Board of Directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland,  Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San 
Francisco.  The vote also encompassed approval by the Board of Governors of the establishment of a 4.75 percent primary 
credit rate by the remaining Federal Reserv e Banks, effective on November 8, 2024, or the date such Reserve Banks inform the 
Secretary of the Board of such a request.  (Secretary’s note:  Subsequently, the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis and Kansas 
City were informed of the Board’s approval of their establishment of a primary credit rate of 4.75 percent, effective November 8, 
2024.) 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    15 
 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, 
December 17–18, 2024.  The meeting adjour ned at 10:20 a.m. on November 7, 2024. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on October 8, 2024, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of 
the Committee meeting held on September 17–18, 2024. 
Attendance 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair Thomas I. Barkin Michael S. Barr Raphael W. Bostic Michelle W. Bowman Lisa D. Cook Mary C. Daly Beth M. Hammack Philip N. Jefferson Adriana D. Kugler Christopher J. Waller 
Susan M. Collins, Austan D. Goolsb ee, Alberto G. Musalem, and Jeffrey R. Schmid, Alternate Members 
of the Committee 
Patrick Harker, Neel Kashkari, and Lorie K. Loga n, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas, respectively  
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel Richard Ostrander, Deputy General Counsel Trevor A. Reeve, Economist Stacey Tevlin, Economist Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Shaghil Ahmed, James A. Clouse, Brian M. Doyle, Ed ward S. Knotek II, and William Wascher, Associate 
Economists 
Roberto Perli, Manager, System Open Market Account 
Julie Ann Remache, Deputy Manage r, System Open Market Account 
Stephanie R. Aaronson, Senior Associate Director , Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Jose Acosta, Senior System Engineer II, Division of Information Technology, Board 
Andrea Ajello, Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Gianni Amisano, Assistant Director, Divisi on of Research and Statistics, Board  
16    November 6–7, 2024 
 
Sriya Anbil,4 Group Manager, Division of  Monetary Affairs, Board 
Roc Armenter, Executive Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Alyssa Arute,5 Assistant Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board  
Alessandro Barbarino, Special Adviser to th e Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
David Bowman, Senior Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Mark A. Carlson, Adviser, Divisi on of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Michele Cavallo, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Kevin B. Clark,4 Capital Markets Trading Principal, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Juan Carlos Climent, Special Adviser to th e Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Di vision of International Finance, Board 
Marco Del Negro, Economic Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Andrew T. Foerster, Senior Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Jenn Gallagher, Assistant to the Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Peter M. Garavuso, Lead Information Manage r, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Carlos Garriga, Senior Vice President,  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board 
Jonathan E. Goldberg, Principal Economist,  Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Brian Gowen,
4 Capital Markets Trading Principal, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Joseph W. Gruber, Executive Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
James Hebden, Principal Economic Modeler,  Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board Don H. Kim,
4 Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Kyungmin Kim,4 Principal Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Elizabeth K. Kiser, Senior Associate Director , Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Anna R. Kovner, Executive Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division  of Financial Stability, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Chair, Division of Board Members, Board 
Dan Li, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
 
4 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
5 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    17 
 
David López-Salido, Senior Associate Direct or, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Joshua S. Louria,4 Group Manager, Division of  Monetary Affairs, Board 
Byron Lutz, Deputy Associate Director, Divi sion of Research and Statistics, Board 
Benjamin W. McDonough, Deputy Secretary and Ombudsman, Office of the Secretary, Board 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Offi ce of the Secretary, Board  
Linsey Molloy,4 Associate Director, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Kevin B. Moore, Assistant Director, Division  of Research and Statistics, Board    
Kindra I. Morelock, Information Services Senior Anal yst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board, and 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Norman J. Morin, Associate Director, Divi sion of Research and Statistics, Board 
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Edward Nelson, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Marcelo Ochoa, Principal Economist, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Anna Paulson, Executive Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Fabrizio Perri, Monetary Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis  
Eugenio P. Pinto, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Andrea Prestipino, Principal Economist, Division of International Finance, Board 
Odelle Quisumbing,4 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board 
Christine Repper,5 Manager, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board 
Zeynep Senyuz,4 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Gustavo A. Suarez, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Manjola Tase,4 Principal Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Robert L. Triplett III, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Clara Vega, Special Adviser to the Boar d, Division of Board Members, Board 
Annette Vissing-Jørgensen, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board  
Jeffrey D. Walker,5 Senior Associate Director, Division of  Reserve Bank Operations and Payment 
Systems, Board 
Jonathan Willis, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Egon Zakrajsek, Executive Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston  
Rebecca Zarutskie, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
  
_______________________ 
Joshua Gallin  
Secretary  
