1 
 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market 
Committee 
July 30–31, 2024 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Commi ttee and the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System was held in the offices of the Board of Governors on Tuesday, July 30, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. and continue d on Wednesday, July 31, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.
1 
Developments in Financial Market s and Open Market Operations 
The manager turned first to a review of developments  in financial markets.  Financial conditions eased 
modestly over the intermeeting period, reflecting lower long-term interest rates and higher equity 
prices.  The manager noted that current financial conditions appeared to be providing neither a 
headwind nor tailwind to growth.   
Nominal Treasury yields declined over the period, wi th shorter-term yields having decreased by more 
than longer-term yields, leading to a steepening of the yield curve.  Treasury yields remained sensitive 
to surprises in economic data, particularly consum er price index releases and employment reports.  
While near-term inflation compen sation fell over the intermeeting period, longer-term forward 
measures were little changed.  Measures of infl ation expectations obtain ed from term structure 
models were modestly lower.  The policy rate pa th derived from futures prices and the modal path 
derived from options prices both declined over the intermeeting period and had come into closer 
alignment with the median of the modal responses from the Open Market Desk’s Survey of Primary 
Dealers and Survey of Market Participants.  Policy  expectations, however measured, pointed to a first 
rate cut at the September FOMC meeting, at least one more cut later in the year, and further policy 
easing next year.   
In the equity markets, the high perceived likelih ood of a September cut in the target range for the 
policy rate induced a notable appreciation in the stoc ks of firms with small and medium capitalization, 
which tend to be more sensitive to interest rates.  Stocks of larger companies, especially those in the 
technology sector, underperformed.  Second-quarter earnings reports received before the meeting had 
been slightly above analysts’ expectations, althou gh some companies noted a softening in consumer 
spending.   
 
1 The Federal Open Market Committee is referenced as the “F OMC” and the “Committee” in these minutes; the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System is re ferenced as the “Board” in these minutes. 
2    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
Expectations for policy rates in most advanced fo reign economies (AFEs) de clined, as recent data 
generally pointed to continued prog ress on inflation.  Although mo st AFE central banks had cut their 
policy rates or were expected to do so soon, the manager noted that market participants continued to 
expect the Bank of Japan to tighten policy this ye ar.  The sudden announcement of a French election 
contributed to some short-term market volatility ea rly in the intermeeting peri od, including a widening 
between yields of French and German 10-year sovereign bonds an d a widening in spreads for off-the-
run U.S. Treasury securities, but the effects on  U.S. Treasury markets were short lived.  
The effective federal funds rate remained unchanged over the intermeeting period, but the manager 
noted that rates on repurchase agreements (repo)  had edged higher, reflecting increased demand for 
financing Treasury securities as well as the expected  effects of gradual balance sheet normalization.  
Use of the overnight reverse repo (ON RRP) facility de clined slightly over the intermeeting period.  The 
staff projected that ON RRP usage would decline mo re noticeably over the remainder of the year, 
particularly as issuance of Treasu ry bills increases.  However, the manager noted that it was possible 
that idiosyncratic factors specific to some ON RRP participants might support ON RRP balances in the 
months ahead.  Looking at a rang e of money market indicators, the manager concluded that reserves 
remained abundant but indicated that the staff wo uld continue to closely monitor developments in 
money markets.  Finally, the manager described a se t of technical adjustments to the production of 
the Secured Overnight Financing Rate that the Fede ral Reserve Bank of New York had proposed in a 
recent public consultation.   
By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk ’s domestic transactions over the intermeeting 
period.  There were no intervention operations in  foreign currencies for the System’s account during 
the intermeeting period. 
Staff Review of the Economic Situation 
The information available at the time of the meet ing indicated that U.S. economic activity had 
advanced solidly so far this year, but at a markedly  slower pace than in the second half of 2023.  
Labor market conditions continued to ease:  Jo b gains moderated, and the unemployment rate moved 
up further but remained low.  Consumer price inflation was well below its year-earlier pace but 
remained somewhat elevated. 
Consumer price inflation—as meas ured by the 12-month change in  the price index for personal 
consumption expenditures (PCE)—was about the same in June as it was at the start of the year, though 
the month-over-month changes in May and June were  smaller than those seen earlier in the year.  
Total PCE price inflation was 2.5 percent in June , and core PCE price inflation—which excludes 
changes in energy prices and many consumer food prices—was 2.6 percent. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    3 
 
Recent data suggested that labor market conditio ns had eased further.  Average monthly nonfarm 
payroll gains in the second quarter were smaller th an the average pace seen in the first quarter and 
over the previous year.  The unemployment rate mo ved up further in June to 4.1 percent; the labor 
force participation rate ticked up as well, and the employment-to-population ratio was unchanged.  
The unemployment rate for African Americans rose in June, while the rate for Hispanics declined 
slightly; both rates were above that for Whites.  Th e ratio of job vacancies to unemployment remained 
at 1.2 in June, about the same as its pre-pandemic  level.  Measures of nominal wages continued to 
decelerate:  Average hourly earnings for all employee s rose 3.9 percent over the 12 months ending in 
June, down 0.8 percentage point relative to a year earlier, and the 12-month change in the 
employment cost index of hourly compensation of private industry workers was 3.9 percent in June, down 0.6 percentage point fr om its year-earlier pace. 
According to the advance release, re al gross domestic product (GDP) ro se solidly in the second quarter 
after a modest gain in the first quarter.  Over th e first half of the year, GDP growth was noticeably 
slower than its average pace in 2023.  However, re al private domestic final purchases (PDFP)—which 
comprises PCE and private fixed investment and wh ich often provides a better signal than GDP of 
underlying economic momentum—posted a solid second-quarter increase that was in line with its first-
quarter pace and only moderately slower th an its average rate of  increase in 2023. 
As in the first quarter, net exports subtracted from U.S. GDP growth in the second quarter.  Growth in 
real exports of goods and services remained tepid overall, as gains in exports of capital goods and 
consumer goods were partly offset by declines in ex ports of foods and industrial supplies.  By contrast, 
real imports continued to rise at a brisk pace, driven  by further increases in imports of capital goods.  
Foreign economic growth was estimate d to have been subdued in the second quarter, held down by a 
sharp deceleration in economic ac tivity in China amid ongoing prop erty-sector woes.  In Europe and 
Latin America, output likely expanded below its tren d pace, as restrictive monetary policy continued to 
be a drag on activity.   
Recent global inflation developments  were mixed.  In the AFEs, head line inflation edged down in the 
second quarter but generally remained above target le vels.  In emerging market economies, headline 
inflation rose a touch overall, reflec ting, in part, run-ups in food prices in some countries.  The Bank of 
Canada and the Swiss National Bank  cut their policy rates further, in part citing easing inflation 
pressures.  The People’s Bank of China also lowe red some key policy rates amid ongoing property-
sector woes and weak consumer sentiment. 
4    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
Staff Review of the Financial Situation 
The market-implied path for the federal funds rate moved down over the interm eeting period.  Options 
on interest rate futures suggested that market participants were placing higher odds on a larger policy 
easing by early 2025 than they did just before the June meeting.  Consistent with the downward shift 
in the implied policy path, nominal Treasury yield s moved down, on net, with the most pronounced 
declines at shorter horizons driven largely by decreases in inflat ion compensation.   
Broad stock price indexes rose slightly on net.  Yield spreads on investment- and speculative-grade 
corporate bonds were little change d and remained at about the lowest decile of their respective 
historical distributions.  The one- month option-implied volatility on the S&P 500 index rose moderately 
and was somewhat elevated by hist orical standards, suggesting th at investors perceived some, but 
not outsized, risks to the economic outlook. 
Market-based measures of the expected paths of po licy rates and sovereign bo nd yields in most AFEs 
fell notably, largely in response to  declines in U.S. rates.  Following the surprise announcement of 
parliamentary elections in France, the spread betw een yields of French and German 10-year sovereign 
bonds widened to its highest level since 2012 but then  partially retraced on the outcome of no clear 
parliamentary majority.  The broad dollar index was little changed over the intermeeting period.  On 
balance, moves in foreign risky as set prices were mixed and modest. 
Overnight secured rates edged up over the intermee ting period, but conditions in U.S. short-term 
funding markets remained stable, wi th typical dynamics observed surrounding quarter-end.  Average 
usage of the ON RRP facility declined slightly.  Bank s’ total deposit levels increased modestly, as large 
time deposits displayed moderate inflows. 
In domestic credit markets, borro wing costs remained elevated over  the intermeeting period despite 
modest declines in some markets.  Rates on 30-year conforming residential mortgages declined, on 
net, over the intermeeting period but stayed near rece nt high levels.  Interest rates on new credit card 
offers increased slightly, while rates on new auto lo ans were little changed.  Interest rates on small 
business loans remained elevated.  Yields on an array of fixed-income securities—including 
commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), in vestment- and speculative-grade corporate bonds, 
and residential mortgage-backed securities—moved lowe r to still-elevated levels relative to recent 
history.  The declines were largely dr iven by decreases in Treasury yields. 
Financing through capital markets and nonbank lender s was readily accessible for public corporations 
and large and middle-market private corporations, an d credit availability for leveraged loan borrowers 
remained solid over the intermeeting period.  For sm aller firms, however, cred it availability remained 
moderately tight.  In the July Senior Loan Office r Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS), 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    5 
 
banks reported modestly tighter standards and le nding terms for commercial  and industrial (C&I) 
loans, on net, while reported demand for C&I loan s remained about unchanged.  Meanwhile, C&I loan 
balances increased in the second quarter.  Regard ing commercial real estate (CRE) loans, banks in 
the July SLOOS reported tightening standards for a ll loan categories.  Nonetheless, bank CRE loan 
balances increased over the second quarter, albeit  at a diminished pace relative to the previous 
quarter. 
Credit remained available for most consumers ov er the intermeeting period, though credit growth 
showed signs of moderating.  Credit card balances  slowed in June, and SLOOS respondents indicated 
that standards for credit cards tigh tened moderately in the second quarter.  Although banks reported 
in the SLOOS that lending standard s on auto loans were unchanged in  the second quarter, growth in 
auto lending at both banks and nonbanks contracted further.  In the residential mortgage market, 
access to credit was little changed overall and co ntinued to depend on borrowers’ credit risk 
attributes.  
Credit quality remained solid for large and midsize firms, home mortgage borrowers, and 
municipalities but continued to deteriorate in other sectors.  The credit qual ity of nonfinancial firms 
borrowing in the corporate bond and leveraged loan  markets remained stable.  Delinquency rates on 
loans to small businesses remained  slightly above pre-pandemic leve ls.  Credit quality in the CRE 
market deteriorated further, with the average deli nquency rate for loans in  CMBS and the share of 
nonperforming CRE loans at bank s both rising further.  Rega rding household balance sheets, 
delinquency rates on most residential mortgage s remained near pre-pandemic lows.  Though 
consumer delinquency rates had increased, partic ularly among nonprime borrowers, the rise in 
delinquency rates for both credit cards and auto loans slowed in the second quarter. 
The staff provided an update on its assessment of th e stability of the U.S. financial system and, on 
balance, continued to characterize the system’s fina ncial vulnerabilities as notable.  The staff judged 
that asset valuation pressures remained elevated , with estimates of risk premiums across key 
markets low compared with historical standards.  House prices remained elevated relative to 
fundamentals.  CRE prices continued to decline, especially in the mu ltifamily and office sectors, and 
vacancy rates in these sector s continued to increase.   
Vulnerabilities associated with business and ho usehold debt were characterized as moderate.  
Nonfinancial business leverage was high, but the abil ity of public firms to service their debt remained 
solid, in large part due to strong earnings.  The frac tion of private firms with low debt-servicing ability 
continued to move up and remained at high leve ls compared with the past decade.  Household 
balance sheets remained strong overall, as aggregate home equity stayed quite high and 
delinquencies on mortgage loans remained low.   
6    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
Leverage in the financial sector was characterized as notable.  Regulatory capital ratios in the banking 
sector remained high.  The fair value of bank asse ts, however, remained low.  For the nonbank sector, 
leverage at hedge funds was at its highest recorded  level based on data since 2013, partly due to the 
prevalence of the cash–futures basis trade.  Leve rage at life insurers was somewhat elevated, and 
their holdings of risky and illiquid se curities continued to grow.       
Funding risks were also characterized as notable.   Assets in prime mone y market funds and other 
runnable cash-management vehicles remained near histor ical highs.  Life insurers’ greater reliance on 
nontraditional liabilities, coupled with their increasi ng holdings of risky corp orate debt, suggested that 
adverse shocks to the industry could trigger substantial funding pressures at these firms.   
Staff Economic Outlook 
The economic forecast prepared by the staff for th e July meeting implied a lower rate of resource 
utilization over the projection period relative to th e forecast prepared for the previous meeting.  The 
staff’s outlook for growth in the second half of 2 024 had been marked down largely in response to 
weaker-than-expected labor market indicators.  As a result, the output gap at the start of 2025 was 
somewhat narrower than had been previously projecte d, although still not fully closed.  Over 2025 and 
2026, real GDP growth was expected to rise about in line with potential, leaving the output gap roughly 
flat in those years.  The unemployment rate was ex pected to edge up slightly over the remainder of 
2024 and then to remain roughly unchanged in 2025 and 2026. 
The staff’s inflation forecast was slightly lower than the one prepared for the previous meeting, 
reflecting incoming data and the lower projected level of resource utilization.  Both total and core PCE 
price inflation were expected to decline further as demand and su pply in product and labor markets 
continued to move into better balance; by 2026, tota l and core inflation were expected to be around 
2 percent. 
The staff continued to view the unce rtainty around the baseline projection as close to the average over 
the past 20 years.  Risks to the inflation forecast we re still seen as tilted to the upside, albeit to a 
smaller degree than at the time of the previous meetin g.  The risks around the forecast for real activity 
were viewed as skewed to the downside, both becaus e more-persistent inflation could result in tighter 
financial conditions than in the ba seline and because the recent soft ening in some indicators of labor 
market conditions might be pointing to a larger- than-anticipated slowdown in aggregate demand 
growth. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    7 
 
Participants’ Views on Current Cond itions and the Economic Outlook 
Participants observed that inflation had eased over the past year but remained elevated and that, in 
recent months, there had been so me further progress toward the Committee’s 2 percent inflation 
objective.  Participants noted that the recent pr ogress on disinflation was broad based across the 
major subcomponents of core inflat ion.  Core goods prices were ab out flat from March through June 
after having risen during the first three months of th e year.  Price inflation in June for housing services 
showed a notable slowing, which part icipants had been anticipating for some time.  In addition, core 
nonhousing services prices had decelerated in re cent months.  Some participants noted that the 
recent data corroborated reports from  their business contacts that firms’ pricing power was waning, as 
consumers appeared to be more sens itive to price increases.  Various contacts had also reported that 
they had cut prices or were offering discounts to st ay competitive, or that declines in input costs had 
helped reduce pressure on retail prices.     
With regard to the outlook for in flation, participants judged that  recent data had increased their 
confidence that inflation was moving  sustainably toward 2 percent.  Almost all participants observed 
that the factors that had contribu ted to recent disinflation would likely continue to put downward 
pressure on inflation in coming months.  These fact ors included a continued wa ning of pricing power, 
moderating economic growth, and the runoff in ex cess household savings accumulated during the 
pandemic.  Many participants noted that the modera tion of growth in labor costs as labor market 
conditions rebalanced would continue  to contribute to disinflation, particularly in core nonhousing 
services prices.  Some participants noted that th e lags in the time it takes for housing rental 
conditions for new tenants to show through to aggre gate price data for housing services meant that 
the disinflationary trend in this component would li kely continue.  Participants also observed that 
longer-term inflation expectatio ns had remained well anchored and viewed this anchoring as 
underpinning the disinflation process.  A couple of  participants noted that inflation pressures might 
persist for some time, as they assessed that the economy had considerab le momentum, and that, 
even with some easing of the demand for labor, the labor market remained strong. 
Participants assessed that supply and demand cond itions in the labor mark et had continued to come 
into better balance.  The unem ployment rate had moved up but remained low, having risen 
0.7 percentage point since its trough in April 2023 to 4.1 percent in June.  The monthly pace of payroll 
job gains had moderated from the first quarter but ha d been solid in recent months.  However, many 
participants noted that reported payroll gains migh t be overstated, and several assessed that payroll 
gains may be lower than those needed to keep the un employment rate constant with a flat labor force 
participation rate.  Participants observed that other indicators also pointed to easing in labor market 
conditions, including a lower hiring rate and a down trend in job vacancies since the beginning of the 
8    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
year.  Participants noted that the rebalancing of la bor market conditions over the past year was also 
aided by an expansion of the supply of workers, re flecting increases in the labor force participation 
rate among individuals aged 25 to 54  and a strong pace of immigration.  Participants noted that, with 
continued rebalancing of labor market conditions, nominal wage growth had continued to moderate.  
Many participants cited reports from District cont acts that supported the view that labor market 
conditions had been easing.  In pa rticular, contacts reported that they had been experiencing less 
difficulty in hiring and retaining workers and that they saw limited wage pressures.  Participants 
generally assessed that, overall, conditions in th e labor market had returned to about where they 
stood on the eve of the pandemic—strong but not overheated. 
Regarding the outlook for the labor market, particip ants discussed various indicators of layoffs, 
including initial claims for unem ployment benefits and measures of job separations.  Some 
participants commented that these indicators had re mained at levels consiste nt with a strong labor 
market.  Participants agreed that these and other in dicators of labor market conditions merited close 
monitoring.  Several participants said that their Di strict contacts reported that they were actively 
managing head counts through selective hiring and attrition. 
Participants noted that real GDP growth was solid in the first half of the year , though slower than the 
robust pace seen in the second half of last year.  PDFP growth, which usually gives a better signal than 
GDP growth of economic momentum, also moderated in  the first half, but by less than GDP growth.  
PDFP expanded at a solid pace, supported by gro wth in consumer spending and business fixed 
investment.  Participants viewed the moderation in the growth of economic  activity to be largely in line 
with what they had anticipated. 
Regarding the household sector, participants observed  that consumer spending had slowed from last 
year’s robust pace, consistent with restrictive mone tary policy, easing of labor market conditions, and 
slowing income growth.  They noted, however, that consumer spending had still grown at a solid pace 
in the first half of the year, supported by the still-strong labor market  and aggregate household 
balance sheets.  Some participants observed th at lower- and moderate-income households were 
encountering increasing strains as they attempted to  meet higher living cost s after having largely run 
down savings accumulated during the pandemic.  Th ese participants noted that such strains were 
evident in indicators such as rising credit ca rd delinquency rates and an increased share of 
households paying the minimum due on balances, an d warranted continued close monitoring.  Several 
participants cited reports that consumers, especially  those in lower-income households, were shifting 
away from discretionary spending and switching to lower-cost food items and brands.  A couple of 
participants remarked that spendi ng by some higher-income households was likely being bolstered by 
wealth effects from equity and housing price appr eciation.  Participants noted that residential 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    9 
 
investment was weak in the second quarter, likely re flecting the pickup in mortgage rates from earlier 
in the year. 
Regarding the business sector, participants noted th at conditions varied by  firm size, sector, and 
region.  A couple of participants noted that their Dist rict contacts had reported larger firms as having a 
generally stable outlook, while the outlook for smaller firms appeared more uncertain.  A few 
participants said that their contacts reported th at conditions in the ma nufacturing sector were 
somewhat weaker, while the professional and business  services sector and technology-related sectors 
remained strong.  A few participan ts noted that the agricultural sector continued to face strains 
stemming from low food commodity prices and high input costs. 
Participants discussed the risks and uncertainties around the economic outlook.  Upside risks to the 
inflation outlook were seen as ha ving diminished, while downside risks to employment were seen as 
having increased.  Participants saw risks to achi eving the inflation and employment objectives as 
continuing to move into better balance, with a couple  noting that they viewed these risks as more or 
less balanced.  Some participants noted that as co nditions in the labor market have eased, the risk 
had increased that continued easing could transition to a more serious deterioration.  As sources of 
upside risks to inflation, some participants cited the potential for disruptions to supply chains and a 
further deterioration in geopolitical conditions.  A few participants noted that an easing of financial 
conditions could boost economic activi ty and present an upside risk to economic growth and inflation.   
In their discussion of financial stability, partic ipants who commented note d vulnerabilities to the 
financial system that they assessed warranted mo nitoring.  Some participants observed that the 
banking system was sound but noted risks associated wi th unrealized losses on securities, reliance on 
uninsured deposits, and inte rconnections with nonbank financial inte rmediaries.  In their discussion of 
bank funding, several participan ts commented that, because the discount window is an important 
liquidity backstop, the Federal Reserve should contin ue to improve the window’s operational efficiency 
and to communicate effectively about the window’s value.  Participants generally noted that some 
banks and nonbank financial institutions likely have vulnerabilities associated with high CRE 
exposures through loan portfolios and holdings of CMBS.  Most of these participants remarked that 
risks related to CRE exposures depend importantl y on the property type and the local market 
conditions of the properties involved.  A couple of  participants noted concerns about asset valuation 
pressures in other markets as well.  Many participan ts commented on cyber risks that could impair the 
operation of financial institutions, financial infrastr ucture, and, potentially, the overall economy.  Many 
participants remarked that because a few firms play a substantial role in the provision of information 
technology services to the financial sector and beca use of the highly intercon nected nature of some 
firms in the financial industry itself, there was an in creased risk that significant cyber disruptions at a 
small number of key firms could have widespread effe cts.  Several participants noted that leverage in 
10    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
the Treasury market remained a risk, that it woul d be important to monitor developments regarding 
Treasury market resilience amid the move to centra l clearing, or that it is valuable to communicate 
about the Federal Reserve’s standing repo facility as  a liquidity backstop.  A couple of participants 
commented on the financial condition of low- and moderate-income households that have exhausted 
their savings and the importance of monitoring ri sing delinquency rates on credit cards and auto 
loans. 
In their consideration of monetary po licy at this meeting, participants  observed that recent indicators 
suggested that economic activity had continued to expand at a solid pace, job gains had moderated, 
and the unemployment rate had moved up but rema ined low.  While inflation remained somewhat 
above the Committee’s longer-run goal of 2 percent, participants noted that inflation had eased over 
the past year and that recent incoming data indi cated some further progress toward the Committee’s 
objective.  All participants support ed maintaining the target range for the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 
5½ percent, although several observed that the re cent progress on inflation and increases in the 
unemployment rate had provided a plausible case for reducing the target range 25 basis points at this 
meeting or that they could have supported such a decision.  Participants furthermore judged that it 
was appropriate to continue the process of reducing the Federal Reserve’s securities holdings. 
In discussing the outlook for moneta ry policy, participants noted that  growth in economic activity had 
been solid, there had been some further progress on  inflation, and conditions in the labor market had 
eased.  Almost all participants remarked that while the incoming data regarding inflation were 
encouraging, additional informat ion was needed to provide greate r confidence that inflation was 
moving sustainably toward the Committee’s 2 percen t objective before it would be appropriate to 
lower the target range for the federal funds rate.  Ne vertheless, participants vi ewed the incoming data 
as enhancing their confidence that inflation was mo ving toward the Committee’s objective.  The vast 
majority observed that, if the data continued to come in about as expect ed, it would likely be 
appropriate to ease policy at the next meeting.  Many participants commente d that monetary policy 
continued to be restrictive, although they expressed a range of views about the degree of 
restrictiveness, and a few participants noted that on going disinflation, with no change in the nominal 
target range for the policy rate, by itself results in a tightening in monetary policy.  Most participants 
remarked on the importance of  communicating the Committee’s data-dependent approach and 
emphasized, in particular, that monetary policy decisions are conditional on the evolution of the 
economy rather than being on a preset path or that those decisions depend on the totality of the 
incoming data rather than on any particular data point.  Several participan ts stressed the need to 
monitor conditions in money markets and factors af fecting the demand for reserves amid the ongoing 
reduction in the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    11 
 
In discussing risk-management cons iderations that could bear on the outlook for monetary policy, 
participants highlighted uncertainties affecting th e outlook, such as those regarding the amount of 
restraint currently provided by monetary policy, th e lags with which past and current restraint have 
affected and will affect economic activity, and the degree of normalization of the economy following 
disruptions associated with the pandemic.  A majority  of participants remarked that the risks to the 
employment goal had increased, and many participan ts noted that the risks to the inflation goal had 
decreased.  Some participants noted the risk that a further gradual easing in  labor market conditions 
could transition to a more serious deterioration.  Ma ny participants noted that reducing policy restraint 
too late or too little could risk unduly weakenin g economic activity or employment.  A couple 
participants highlighted in particular the costs and challenges of addressing such a weakening once it 
is fully under way.  Several participants remarked th at reducing policy restraint too soon or too much 
could risk a resurgence in aggregate demand and a reversal of the progress on inflation.  These 
participants pointed to risks related to potential shoc ks that could put upward pressure on inflation or 
the possibility that inflation could prove mo re persistent than currently expected.   
Committee Policy Actions 
In their discussions of monetary policy for this m eeting, members agreed that economic activity had 
continued to expand at a solid pace.  Job gains had moderated, and the unemployment rate had 
moved up but remained low.  Inflation eased over  the past year but remained somewhat elevated. 
Members concurred that, in recent months, ther e had been some further progress toward the 
Committee’s 2 percent inflation objective.  Me mbers judged that the risks to achieving the 
Committee’s employment and inflation goals had co ntinued to move into better balance.  Members 
viewed the economic outlook as un certain and agreed that they were  attentive to the risks to both 
sides of the Committ ee’s dual mandate. 
In support of the Committee’s goals to achieve ma ximum employment and inflation at the rate of 
2 percent over the longer run, members agreed to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate 
at 5¼ to 5½ percent.  Members concurred that, in considering any adjustments to the target range for 
the federal funds rate, they would carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.  Members agreed that they did not expect that it would be appropriate to reduce the 
target range until they had gained greater confiden ce that inflation is moving sustainably toward 
2 percent.  In addition, members agreed to contin ue to reduce the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
Treasury securities and agency debt and agency mortgage ‑backed securities.  All members affirmed 
their strong commitment to returning inflatio n to the Committee’s 2 percent objective. 
Members agreed that, in assessing the appropriate st ance of monetary policy, they would continue to 
monitor the implications of incoming  information for the economic outl ook.  They would be prepared to 
12    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
adjust the stance of monetary policy as appropriat e if risks emerged that co uld impede the attainment 
of the Committee’s goals.  Members also agreed that their assessments would take into account a 
wide range of information, including readings on  labor market conditions , inflation pressures and 
inflation expectations, and financial  and international developments. 
Members agreed that to appropriat ely reflect developments since the previous meeting related to their 
maximum-employment objective, they should note in  the statement that “job gains have moderated, 
and the unemployment rate has moved up but rema ins low.”  Similarly, to appropriately reflect 
developments related to their price- stability objective, they agreed to  note that “there has been some 
further progress toward the Committee’s 2 percent inflation objective.”  Me mbers also agreed to 
reflect the shifting balance of risks by stating that “the Committee judges that the risks to achieving its 
employment and inflation goals continue to move into better ba lance” and that “the Committee is 
attentive to the risks to both  sides of its dual mandate.” 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, until instructed otherwise, to execute tran sactions in the System Open Market Account in 
accordance with the following domestic policy directive, for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Effective August 1, 2024, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to: 
• Undertake open market operations as necessar y to maintain the federal funds rate in a 
target range of 5¼ to 5½ percent. 
• Conduct standing overnight repurchase agreem ent operations with a minimum bid rate of 
5.5 percent and with an aggregate operation limit of $500 billion. 
• Conduct standing overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at an offering rate 
of 5.3 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160 billion per day. 
• Roll over at auction the amount of princi pal payments from the Federal Reserve’s 
holdings of Treasury securities maturing in  each calendar month that exceeds a cap of 
$25 billion per month.  Redeem Treasury coup on securities up to this monthly cap and 
Treasury bills to the extent that coupon prin cipal payments are less than the monthly cap. 
• Reinvest the amount of principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of 
agency debt and agency mort gage-backed securities (MBS) received in each calendar 
month that exceeds a cap of $35 billion per mo nth into Treasury securities to roughly 
match the maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding. 
• Allow modest deviations from stated am ounts for reinvestments, if needed for 
operational reasons. 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    13 
 
• Engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transact ions as necessary to facilitate settlement 
of the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS transactions.” 
The vote also encompassed approval of the statement below for release at 2:00 p.m.: 
“Recent indicators suggest that economic activi ty has continued to expand at a solid pace. 
Job gains have moderated, and the unemploy ment rate has moved up but remains low. 
Inflation has eased over the past year but re mains somewhat elevated .  In recent months, 
there has been some further progress toward the Committee’s 2 percen t inflation objective. 
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employme nt and inflation at the rate of 2 percent 
over the longer run.  The Committee judges th at the risks to achieving its employment and 
inflation goals continue to move into better ba lance.  The economic outlook is uncertain, and 
the Committee is attentive to the risks to both sides of its dual mandate. 
In support of its goals, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for the federal 
funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent.  In consider ing any adjustments to the target range for the 
federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess incoming data, the evolving outlook, 
and the balance of risks.  The Committee does not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the 
target range until it has gained greater confidence  that inflation is moving sustainably toward 
2 percent.  In addition, the Committee will co ntinue reducing its holdings of Treasury 
securities and agency debt and agency mortgage ‑backed securities.  The Committee is 
strongly committed to returning infl ation to its 2 percent objective. 
In assessing the appropriate stance of mone tary policy, the Committee will continue to 
monitor the implications of in coming information for the economic outlook.  The Committee 
would be prepared to adjust the stance of moneta ry policy as appropriate if risks emerge that 
could impede the attainment of the Committ ee’s goals.  The Committee’s assessments will 
take into account a wide range of information, including readin gs on labor market conditions, 
inflation pressures and inflatio n expectations, and financial an d international developments.” 
Voting for this action:  Jerome H. Powell, John C. Williams,  Thomas I. Barkin, Michael S. Barr, 
Raphael W. Bostic, Michelle W. Bowman, Lisa D. Cook, Mary C. Daly, Austan D. Goolsbee, 
Philip N. Jefferson, Adriana D. Kugler, and Christopher J. Waller. 
Voting against this action: None. 
Austan D. Goolsbee voted as an al ternate member at this meeting. 
Consistent with the Committee’s decision to leave the target range for the federal funds rate 
unchanged, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to maintain the 
14    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
interest rate paid on reserve balances at 5.4 pe rcent, effective August 1, 2024.  The Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted un animously to approve the establishment of the 
primary credit rate at the existing level of 5.5 percent, effective August 1, 2024. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday–Wednesday, 
September 17–18, 2024.  The meeting adjourned at 10:10 a.m. on July 31, 2024. 
Notation Vote 
By notation vote completed on Ju ly 2, 2024, the Committee unanimou sly approved the minutes of the 
Committee meeting held on June 11–12, 2024. 
Attendance 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair Thomas I. Barkin Michael S. Barr Raphael W. Bostic Michelle W. Bowman Lisa D. Cook Mary C. Daly Philip N. Jefferson Adriana D. Kugler Christopher J. Waller 
Susan M. Collins, Austan D. Goolsb ee, Alberto G. Musalem, Jeffrey R. Schmid, and Sushmita Shukla, 
Alternate Members of the Committee 
Patrick Harker, Neel Kashkari, and Lorie K. Loga n, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas, respectively 
Mark Meder, Interim President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland  
Joshua Gallin, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary Brian J. Bonis, Assistant Secretary Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel Richard Ostrander, Deputy General Counsel Trevor A. Reeve, Economist Stacey Tevlin, Economist Beth Anne Wilson, Economist 
Edward S. Knotek II, David E. Lebow, and William Wascher, Associate Economists 
Roberto Perli, Manager, System Open Market Account Julie Ann Remache, Deputy Manage r, System Open Market Account 
Stephanie R. Aaronson, Senior Associate Director , Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
Jose Acosta, Senior System Administrator II, Division of Information Technology, Board 
Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee    15 
 
Alyssa G. Anderson, Principal Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board  
Alessandro Barbarino, Special Adviser to th e Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
David Bowman,2 Senior Associate Director, Divisi on of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Fang Cai, Assistant Director, Divisi on of Financial Stability, Board 
Mark A. Carlson, Adviser, Divisi on of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Stephanie E. Curcuru, Deputy Director, Di vision of International Finance, Board 
Rochelle M. Edge, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Jonas Fisher, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Glenn Follette, Associate Director, Divisi on of Research and Statistics, Board 
Etienne Gagnon, Associate Director, Divi sion of Internatio nal Finance, Board 
Jenn Gallagher, Assistant to the Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Carlos Garriga, Senior Vice President,  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board 
David Glancy, Principal Economist, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Joseph W. Gruber, Executive Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Christopher J. Gust, Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Diana Hancock, Senior Associate Director, Di vision of Research and Statistics, Board 
Valerie S. Hinojosa, Section Chief, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Colin J. Hottman, Principal Economist, Di vision of International Finance, Board 
Jane E. Ihrig, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Mark J. Jensen, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Benjamin K. Johannsen, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board  
Faten Khoury,2 Senior Financial Institution Policy Analyst,  Division of Reserve Bank Operations and 
Payment Systems, Board 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board 
Don H. Kim, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board Anna R. Kovner, Executive Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division  of Financial Stability, Board 
Kurt F. Lewis, Special Adviser to the Chair, Division of Board Members, Board 
Laura Lipscomb, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Rebecca D. McCaughrin,
2 Policy and Market Analysis Director , Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
 
2 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations.  
16    Jul y 30–31, 2024 
 
Benjamin W. McDonough,3 Deputy Secretary and Ombudsman, Office of the Secretary, Board 
Yvette McKnight,4 Senior Agenda Assistant, Office of Secretary, Board 
Andrew Meldrum, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Karel Mertens, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Thomas Mertens, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Ann E. Misback,
5 Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board  
Norman J. Morin, Associate Director, Divi sion of Research and Statistics, Board 
Michelle M. Neal, Head of Markets, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Alyssa O’Connor, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Bo ard Members, Board 
Paolo A. Pesenti, Director of Monetary Policy Research, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Eugenio P. Pinto, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Odelle Quisumbing,4 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board 
Andrea Raffo, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Donald Keith Sill, Senior Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Arsenios Skaperdas, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Gustavo A. Suarez, Assistant Director, Divi sion of Research and Statistics, Board 
Manjola Tase, Principal Economist, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Thiago Teixeira Ferreira, Special Adviser to th e Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
Clara Vega, Special Adviser to the Boar d, Division of Board Members, Board 
Jeffrey D. Walker,2 Associate Director, Division of Reserv e Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board 
Randall A. Williams, Group Manager, Di vision of Monetary Affairs, Board 
Paul R. Wood, Special Adviser to the Bo ard, Division of Board Members, Board 
Egon Zakrajsek, Executive Vice Presiden t, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston  
Rebecca Zarutskie, Special Adviser to the Board, Division of Board Members, Board 
 
  
_______________________ 
Joshua Gallin  
Secretary  
 
3 Attended Wednesda y’s session only. 
4 Attended through the discussion of the economic and financial situation.  
5 Attended Tuesday’s session only.  
