September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 1 of 22 Transcript of Chair Yellen’s Press Conference 
September 17, 2014 
 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Good afternoon.  The Federa l Open Market Committee concluded its 
meeting earlier today and, as usual, released it s monetary policy statement.  The Committee also 
released a document describing the approach the Committee intends to take  when, at some point 
in the future, it becomes appropriate to be gin normalizing the stance of policy.  Let me 
underscore that our release of this information is not meant to convey any change in the stance of 
policy.  As you know, the FOMC’s views on policy are conveyed in the policy statement, which 
I will now discuss before coming back to our normalization plans.  
As indicated in our policy statement, the FO MC decided to make another reduction in the 
pace of its asset purchases.  The Committee also maintained its forward guidance regarding the 
federal funds rate target and rea ffirmed its view that a highly ac commodative stance of monetary 
policy remains appropriate.  Let me discuss the economic conditions that underpin these actions. 
The economy is continuing to make progress toward the FOMC’s objective of maximum 
sustainable employment.  In the labor market , conditions have improved further in recent 
months.  Although the pace of job growth has sl owed some recently, job gains have averaged 
more than 200,000 per month over the past th ree months.  The unemployment rate was 
6.1 percent in August, two-tenths lower than the data available at  the time of the June FOMC 
meeting.  Broader measures of labor market u tilization, such as the U-6 measure, have shown 
similar improvement, and the labor force part icipation rate has flattened out.  These 
developments continue the trend of gradual progr ess toward our employment objective.  But the 
labor market has yet to fully recover.  There are still too many people who want jobs but cannot 
find them, too many who are working part time but  would prefer full-ti me work, and too many 
who are not searching for a job but would be if the labor market we re stronger.  As noted in the 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 2 of 22 FOMC statement, “a range of labor market indica tors suggests that there remains significant 
underutilization of labor resources.” 
The Committee continues to see sufficient und erlying strength in the economy to support 
ongoing improvement in the labor market.  Althou gh real GDP rose at an annual rate of only 
about 1 percent in the first half of  the year, that modest gain reflect ed, in part, transitory factors, 
including a dip in net exports .  Indeed, private domestic final demand—that is, spending by 
domestic households and businesse s—grew about twice as fast as  GDP.  Indicators of spending 
and production for the third quarter suggest that  economic activity is expanding at a moderate 
pace, and the Committee continues to expect a moderate pace of growth going forward.  
Inflation has been running below the Committ ee’s 2 percent objective, but with longer-
term inflation expectations appearing to be we ll anchored and the economic recovery continuing, 
the Committee expects inflation to move gradua lly back toward its ob jective.  Moreover, 
inflation has firmed some since earlier in the year, and the Co mmittee believes that the likelihood 
of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished.  As is always the case, the 
Committee will continue to assess incoming data careful ly to ensure that policy is consistent with 
attaining the FOMC’s longer-run goals of maxi mum employment and inflation of 2 percent. 
This outlook is reflected in the individua l economic projections submitted in conjunction 
with this meeting by the FOMC participants , which, for the first time, go through 2017.  As 
always, each participant’s projections are cond itioned on his or her own view of appropriate 
monetary policy.  The central tendency of the une mployment rate projections is slightly lower 
than in the June projections and now stands at  5.9 to 6.0 percent at th e end of this year.  
Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declining to its longer-run normal level over the course of 2016 a nd edging a bit below that level in 2017.  The central tendency of 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 3 of 22 the projections for real GDP growth is 2.0 to 2.2 percent for 2014, down slightly from the June 
projections.  Over the next three years, the proj ections for real GDP growth run somewhat above 
the estimates of longer-run normal growth.  Finally, FOMC participants con tinue to see inflation 
moving gradually back toward 2 percent.  The ce ntral tendency of the inflation projections is 
1.5 to 1.7 percent in 2014, rising to 1.9 to 2 percent in 2017. 
As I noted earlier, the Committee decided today to make another reduction in the pace of 
asset purchases.  Two years ago, when the FOMC began this purchase program, the unemployment rate stood at 8.1 percent, and prog ress in lowering it was expected to be much 
slower than desired without a dditional policy accommodation.  The intent of the program was to 
achieve a substantial improvement in  the outlook for the labor market and to ensure that inflation 
was moving back toward the Committee’s longer- run goal of 2 percent.  In light of the 
cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor 
market conditions since the inception of the progr am, and with the likelihood of inflation running 
persistently below 2 percent having diminished somewhat, we have reduced our pace of asset 
purchases again at this meeti ng.  Starting next month, we w ill be purchasing $15 billion of 
securities per month, down $10 billion per month fr om our current rate.  If incoming information 
broadly supports the Committee’ s expectation of ongoing improveme nt in the labor market and 
inflation moving back over time toward its 2 percent longer-run objective, the Committee will end this program at our next meeting. 
The Committee will continue its policy of re investing proceeds fr om maturing Treasury 
securities and principal payments from holdings  of agency debt and MBS.  The Committee’s 
sizable holdings of longer-term securities should help maintain accommodative financial 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 4 of 22 conditions and promote further progress toward  our objectives of maximum employment and 
inflation of 2 percent.   
Regarding interest rates, the Committee rea ffirmed its forward guidance “that it likely 
will be appropriate to maintain the current ta rget range for the federal funds rate for a 
considerable time after the asset purchase prog ram ends, especially if projected inflation 
continues to run below the Committee’s 2 per cent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation 
expectations remain well anchored.”   This judgment is based on the Committee’s assessment of 
realized and expected progress toward its obj ectives of maximum employment and 2 percent 
inflation—an assessment that is based on a wide  range of information, including measures of 
labor market conditions, indicators  of inflation pressures and infl ation expectations, and readings 
on financial developments.  Further, once we begin to remove policy accommodation, it is the 
Committee’s current assessment that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-
consistent levels, economic conditions may, for so me time, warrant keeping the target federal 
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. 
This guidance is consistent with the paths for appropriate policy as reported in the 
participants’ projections.  As I will explain in a moment, the FOMC now anticipates that it will 
continue to establish a target range, rather than  a single point, for the federal funds rate when 
normalization begins, and the dots in the chart I’ve distributed now  show, for each participant, 
the midpoint of this target range.  Notably, al though the central tenden cy of the unemployment 
rate in late 2016 is slightly below its estimat ed longer-run value, and the central tendency for 
inflation is close to our 2 percen t objective, the median projection fo r the federal funds rate at the 
end of 2016, at 2.9 percent, remains nearly a pe rcentage point below the longer-run value of 
3¾ percent or so projected by mo st participants.  Although FOMC participants provide a number 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 5 of 22 of explanations for the federal funds rate running  below its longer-run normal level at that time, 
many cite the residual effects of the financia l crisis, which, although slowly diminishing, are 
likely to continue to restrain household spe nding, constrain credit availability, and depress 
expectations for future growth in output and inco mes.  As these factors dissipate further, most 
participants expect the federal funds rate to m ove close to its longer-run normal level by the end 
of 2017. 
Let me reiterate, however, that the Committee’s expectations for the path of the federal 
funds rate are contingent on the economic outlook.  If the economy proves to be stronger than 
anticipated by the Committee, resulting in a more rapid convergence of employment and 
inflation to the FOMC’s objectives, then increases  in the federal funds rate are likely to occur 
sooner and to be more rapid than currently envisaged.  Conversely, if  economic performance 
disappoints, increases in the federal funds rate are likely to take place later and to be more 
gradual. 
Let me now turn to our statement on “Policy Normalization Principles and Plans.”  This 
statement is intended to provide information to  the public about the eventual normalization 
process; it does not signal a change in the curr ent or future stance of monetary policy.  As is 
always the case in setting policy, the FOMC  will determine the timing and pace of policy 
normalization so as to promote its statutory mandate of maximum employment and price stability. 
Since the crisis, the Federal Reserve has been providing extraordinary accommodation 
using nontraditional tools of monetary policy.  The FOMC’s intention has always been to return 
to a more traditional approach, and throughout th is period, the Committee ha s been preparing for 
the normalization process.  In June 2011, the Co mmittee set out some broad principles and some 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 6 of 22 more specific tactics for how it e nvisioned the normalization process to take place.  In June 2013, 
we noted that conditions had ch anged significantly in ways not  anticipated in June of 2011, 
including the size and composition of the Fed’s balance sheet, a nd that some revision of those 
earlier plans was appropriate.  The document released today reflects our updated plans, which, 
readers of our minutes will know, have been unde r discussion for the last few FOMC meetings.  
The new approach retains many broad objectives a nd principles from the original but also has 
some new elements.   
As was the case before the crisis, the Committ ee intends to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy during normalization primarily through acti ons that influence the level of the federal 
funds rate and other short-term interest rates,  not through active management of the balance 
sheet.  The federal funds rate will serve as the ke y rate to communicate the stance of policy.  To 
begin normalization, the Committee will raise its ta rget range for the federal funds rate.  The 
Committee expects that the effectiv e federal funds rate may vary within the targ et range, and 
could even move outside of that range on occas ion, but such movements should have no material 
effect on financial conditions  or the broader economy. 
The primary tool for moving the federal funds rate  into the target range will be the rate of 
interest paid on excess reserves, or IOER.  The Committee expects that the federal funds rate will 
trade below the IOER rate while reserves are so  plentiful, as is the case at present.  The 
Committee also intends to use an  overnight reverse repurchase agreemen t facility, which, by 
transacting with a broad set of c ounterparties, will help ensure that  the federal funds rate remains 
in the target range.  I would like to emphasize that the overnight RRP facility will only be used to 
the extent necessary and will be  phased out when no longer needed to help control the federal 
funds rate.  In addition, the Committee will adjust th e particular settings of  these tools as needed, 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 7 of 22 and could deploy other supplementary tools as well, to ensure that we achieve our desired stance 
of policy.   
Turning now to our plans regarding the Fed’ s balance sheet, the Committee intends to 
reduce securities holdings in a gradual and predic table manner, primarily by ceasing to reinvest 
repayments of principal on securi ties held in the System Open Market Account.  Regarding the 
timing for ceasing reinvestments, the Committee now  expects this to occur after the initial 
increase in the target range for the federa l funds rate.  The Committee currently does not 
anticipate selling agency mortgage-backed securities as part  of the normalization process, 
although limited sales might be warranted in th e longer run to reduce or eliminate residual 
holdings.  The timing and pace of such sales wo uld be communicated to the public in advance.   
It’s the Committee’s intention th at the Federal Reserve will, in the longer run, hold no more 
securities than necessary to implement monetary policy efficiently and effectively, and that these 
securities will primarily cons ist of Treasury securities. 
As I stated earlier, today’ s release of the Committee’s upda ted normalization plans is in 
no way intended to signal a change in the stance of  monetary policy.  Rather, it is meant simply 
to provide information about how the Committee e nvisions the normalization process in light of 
the changes in economic and financial circumstances  that have occurred since we put forth our 
original plans more than three years ago.  That said, conditions could change further, and we will 
learn about our tools during norma lization.  The Committee has agreed that it is prepared to 
make additional adjustments to its normalizatio n plans if warranted by economic and financial 
developments.  
Thank you.  Let me stop there.  I’ll be happy to take your questions. 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 8 of 22 STEVE LIESMAN.  Thank you.  Chair Yellen, there was some debate going into this 
meeting about the phrase “considerable time,” and whether it would remain in the statement.  I 
want to know if you could tell me just a couple things about it.  First, was it debated at the 
FOMC as to whether or not it should be includ ed?  And, I’m sorry, we’ve been over this before, 
but what does it mean timewise?  And that’s just two questions.  I have ju st a couple more here.  
Is the statement a form of forward guidance?  An d, finally, how do you square this idea of a date 
when you and others on the FOMC have continuous ly said that you’re data dependent to the 
point where, if the data were to turn, would it not necessarily be a considerable time until you 
raise rates?  Thank you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So, of cour se, the Committee discussed its forward guidance today, 
and it discusses what the appropria te forward guidance is at every meeting.  This is part of our 
assessment of economic conditions and the appropri ate stance of monetary policy.  In terms of 
what the term “considerable time” means, th e Committee decided that, based on its assessment 
of economic conditions, that charac terization remains appropriate, a nd it was comfortable with it.  
I think if you look, for example, at the projections of  individual participants that are revealed in 
the SEP—well, that’s the view of each participant, and, again, I’d emphasize, not a Committee 
collective view—there  is relatively little cha nge in the assessment of the outlook by participants 
between this meeti ng and the assessment in June.  So th e outlook is little changed—a slight 
decline in the anticipated path of the unemploymen t rate and a very slight  uptick in the inflation 
projection, but really quite minimal.  So, the ou tlook hasn’t changed that much from June, and 
the Committee felt comfortable with this characterization. 
Now, you said, “Isn’t this calendar-based guida nce?”  I want to emphasize that there is no 
mechanical interpretation of what the term “considerable time” means.  And, as I’ve said 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 9 of 22 repeatedly, the decisions that th e Committee makes about what is th e appropriate time to begin to 
raise its target for the federal funds rate will be data de pendent.  And in my opening comments 
just now, I again emphasized something I’ve said prev iously, which is that if  the pace of progress 
in achieving our goals were to quicken, if it we re to accelerate, it’s likely that the Committee 
would begin raising its target fo r the federal funds rate sooner th an is now anticipated and might 
raise—might then raise the federal funds rate at a faster pace.  And the opposite is also true, if 
the projection were to change.  So there is no fi xed mechanical interpreta tion of a time period.   
I think it would not be accura te to describe the Committee’ s guidance about the timing of 
the federal funds rate and when it will move a bove zero as being calendar based.  The Committee 
has started with a broad general statement of wh at determines how long it will keep the federal 
funds rate target at zero.  It has said that it will be looking at  the actual and projected pace at 
which the gaps between our employment and infl ation, and our goals for those variables, are 
closing.  And then what the Committee does at ea ch meeting is—after saying that the assessment 
will take into account many different indicators and take into account inflation pressures and 
other things—it goes on to provide at that meeting its assessment of the im plications of its view 
of the data at that time.  And that assessmen t really hasn’t change d over the last several 
meetings.  The Committee, based on its assessmen t at each meeting, has felt comfortable saying 
that, based on its assessment of those factors, it considers that it will be likely appropriate to 
maintain the current target range for a consider able time after the asset purchase program ends, 
especially if inflation remains below the 2 percen t objective.  So I wouldn’ t describe that as—I 
know “considerable time” sounds like it’s a calendar concept, but it is highly  conditional, and it’s 
linked to the Committee’s assessment of the economy. 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 10 of 22 HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Thank you.  Howard Sc hneider with Reuters.  Thank you.  So 
if you would help us, I mean, square the circle a little bit—because havi ng kept the guidance the 
same, having referred to signi ficant underutilization of labor, having actually pushed GDP 
projections down a little b it, yet the rate path gets steeper and seems to be consolidating higher—
so if it’s data dependent, what accounts for the fa ster projections on rate increases if the data 
aren’t moving in that direction? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, the grow th projections for 2014 are down a little bit, but the 
unemployment path is also marginally lower.  So  while the projected path of the labor market—
unemployment and other measures of the labor market—of course is partly dependent on the 
growth outlook, it isn’t totally dependent on th e growth outlook.  And the Committee assesses 
that the labor market is conti nuing to improve, and you see a sma ll reduction in the path of the 
unemployment this year and then over the rest of the projection period.   
So, if you ask me—you asked me, “Why has the projected funds rate path moved up?”  
Well, you know, each participant knows the reason th ey wrote down what they did.  But, as a 
guess, I would hazard—first, I woul d say, there is relatively little  upward movement in the path, 
and I would view it as broadly in line with what  one would expect with a very small downward 
reduction in the path for unemployment and a very  slight upward change in the projection for 
inflation.  So, most participants, in deciding on the path, I think, look at, as our guidance says, 
how large is the gap between pe rformance of the labor market and that associated with our 
maximum employment objective, how large is the gap between inflation and our 2 percent 
objective, how fast will those gaps change.  And you see in the projections very modest 
reductions in the size of those gaps and modest—ve ry small change of a slightly faster pace at 
which those gaps would change.  I would describe  the change in the projections, both for the 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 11 of 22 economy and the path of rates, as quite modest.  But the fact that they move does illustrate the 
data-dependence principle that I think is really so  important for market participants to keep in 
mind, that what we do will depend on how the data unfold.  There is uncertainty about that.  And 
as expectations and the actual performance of  the economy change, you should expect to see 
movements in the dots. 
I think it’s also notable that the further you go out in the projection period, the wider the 
set of dots.  You see a big range out in 2017, and that reflects, in part , different forecasts by 
different members of the Committee about how rapid progress will be.  What you don’t see in 
the dot—so-called dot plot is also the uncertainty  that each individual, each participant, sees 
around their own projection.  So things will de pend on how the economy evolves.  That will 
change over time, and there’s a good deal  of uncertainty a ssociated with it. 
CHRIS CONDON.  Thank you, Madam Chai r.  Chris Condon, Bloomberg News.  
Madam Chair, the economy has been growing now for five years, and some economists believe 
the expansion will last another five years.  W hy, in your view, is economic growth not creating 
more inflation in wages and in PCE?  Is this al l about remaining slack in the labor market, or are 
there other forces at play? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, to my mi nd, the very slow pace of wage increases does reflect 
slack in the labor market.  We had a very deep recession, as is perhaps to be expected in the 
aftermath of a very significant financial cr isis.  We’ve faced headwinds in the economy 
recovering, so the recovery has be en slow.  Growth has been positive, and it’s lasted for five 
years.  But it’s nevertheless been slow relative to  past recoveries that have not been associated 
with financial crises.  And while unemployment has come way down from the slightly over 10 percent level it reached, at 6.1 percent, it remains significantly above the level that most 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 12 of 22 FOMC participants would regard as consistent with normal in the longer run, 5.2 to 5.5 percent.  
So there is significant underutilizat ion of labor resources.  We continue to discuss whether or not 
the unemployment rate itself is  an adequate measure of how much underutilization of labor 
resources there really is.  And, as I went into de tail in Jackson Hole and w on’t repeat all of that 
there, there are other ways in which we see underutilization—high levels  that have come down 
only very marginally of part-time employ ment for economic—or involuntary part-time 
employment, perhaps some remaining shortfall of la bor force participation as a result of cyclical 
factors.  And so, I think there still is—and the statement says it—“significant underutilization of 
labor resources” and a very modest pace of wage in creases that’s picked up very little, I see as 
essentially a reflection of that. 
JON HILSENRATH.  Jon Hilsenrath from the Wall Street Journal .  Chair Yellen, I want 
to come back to the interest rate projections  that the Fed put out today.  The public, I think, 
would be enlightened by knowing a bit more about where you stand in relation to these 
projections.  And with that in mind, and in th e name of transparenc y, I wonder if you could 
describe to us whether you’re at the low end of those projections, within the central tendency, or 
at the high end.  I also want to ask you about a San Francisco Fed paper that came out recently, 
which suggested that market expectations have  been running below the Fed’s own projections.  
So I wanted to ask you if you see that as well, and whether it’s at all troubling that market 
expectations might not be aligned with the central—with what the Fed put out today. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So, with respect to id entifying myself, the Committee has had 
discussions during the years that we have been pr oviding these forecasts of the participants to the 
public as to whether or not it’s desirable fr om the standpoint of Committee functioning to 
identify who’s who in these pictures.  And thus fa r, while occasionally an individual will indicate 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 13 of 22 in a speech what their personal views are, we ha ve not yet decided that it would be a desirable 
thing for the point of view of our decisionmaki ng process to identify individuals.  We have a 
subcommittee on communications that’s now chaire d by Vice Chair Fischer, and they will be 
considering the SEP and whether or not some cha nges are appropriate.  Bu t until and unless there 
is some change in the Committee stance on this, I don’t want to identify myself. 
You asked, second, about the San Francisco Fed paper that did point to a notable 
divergence between market views a nd the views of the Committee.  I’d say that there have been 
any number of different analyses of this topic,  there are many different survey measures and 
interpretations of what the market thinks.  And I don’t frankly think it’s completely clear that 
there is a gap.  There are different views on whether or not such a gap exists .  To the extent that 
there is a gap, one reason for it could be that ma rkets and participants ha ve different views on the 
evolution of economic conditions.  For example, I think I’d note that when the Committee participants write down their forecast for the fede ral funds rate, they are showing the funds rate 
path that they consider most likely.  Their ec onomic forecasts are of the conditions that they 
think are the most likely ones.  You don’t see the full range of possibilities there.  And the path 
for the funds rate is the path that each individu al thinks is most likely.  Market participants, 
understanding that there are a range of po ssible outcomes, with upside and downside 
possibilities, are doing something slightly differe nt, I think, when they’r e determining market 
prices.  They are taking into account the po ssibility that there can be different economic 
outcomes, including—even if they’re not ve ry likely—ones in which outcomes will be 
characterized by low inflation or low growth a nd the appropriate path of rates will be low. 
So, differences in probabilities of different outcomes can explain part of that.  We, you 
know, want to learn, we—market participants may have different views on the economy than the 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 14 of 22 Committee does, and that’s something we want to try to infer and learn ma rket views, in part 
from information of this type.  What I can say is that it is important for market participants to 
understand what our likely response  or reaction function is to the data, and our job is to try to 
communicate as clearly as we can the way in which our policy stance will depend on the data, 
and I promise to try to do that. 
YLAN MUI.  Hi, Ylan Mui, Washington Post .  My question is about the new exit 
principles.  You guys say that you don’t plan to e nd reinvestments until after the first rate hike.  
Can you give us a little bit of a sense of what are the condition s you’re going to be looking for 
when you eventually begin to end the reinvestments?   It sounds like tapering the reinvestments is 
also on the table.  What might go into your deci sion on whether or not to end them altogether, 
whether or not to taper them?  And do you have  a general timeline for how long you think it will 
take to shrink the balance sheet once you actually start? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Okay.  All good questions.  So, I think the Committee would—will 
be focused on—we intend to use the path of short- term interest rates as our key tool of policy.  
And, of course, market participan ts will be very focused, as we are, on what is the appropriate 
timing and pace of interest rate increases when  that time comes.  And I think the Committee 
would like to feel that it ha s successfully begun the normalization process and that we’re 
successfully communicating with ma rkets about how that process wi ll be playing out over time.  
And I think when the Committee is comfortable that  that process is established, is working well, 
and we’re comfortable with the outlook, that they  will begin the process of ceasing—or possibly 
tapering—but eventually ceasing reinvestments. 
So, we say that it will depend on economic and financial conditions, but we want to make 
sure normalization is successfu lly under way.  If we were only to shrink our balance sheet by 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 15 of 22 ceasing reinvestments, it would probably take—to get back to levels of reserve balances that we 
had before the crisis—I’m not sure we will go that  low, but we’ve said that we will try to shrink 
our balance sheet to the lowest levels consistent with the efficient and effective implementation 
of policy—it could take to the end of  the decade to achieve those levels. 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  You said a few mo ments ago that there is perhaps some 
remaining shortfall of labor for ce participation as a result of cy clical factors.  This seems 
consistent with a recent paper by some memb ers of your staff finding that labor force 
participation is unlikely to recove r.  Is that now the “house” view that slack essentially consists 
of unemployment plus part-time workers who want full-time work, and that labor force participation is basically out of the equation? 
And the second question—in the statement of ex it principles, you said that the Committee 
will act as soon as economic conditions warrant.  Th ere had been an idea in circulation at some 
point that you might stay lower for longer as a means of compensating for some of the damage 
done during the recession.  Is this an indication that that debate has been settled, and that that 
idea is off the table? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  I’m sorry.  Ju st remind me, what was the first question?  The first 
question— 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  The first question was— CHAIR YELLEN.  Please.  BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  The first question wa s, has the labor force participation— 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Ah, labor force participation— 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  —been removed from the slack equation? 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 16 of 22 CHAIR YELLEN.  So the recent Brookings paper by the Fed economists clearly 
indicates, and I said this at Jackson Hole, th at there are structural  reasons, particularly 
demographics but not only demographics, why la bor force participation should be expected to 
decline over time.  And I agree with that, and I be lieve that most of my colleagues would endorse 
that as well.  However, they did indicate that, in the paper, that they see some remaining cyclical 
shortfall.  By one technique that they used, th ey placed the estimate at ¼ percent, but by another 
technique that they used it could be, I believe they  said, as large as 1 percent.  And so my own 
personal view is that there is some cyclical shortfall, and something certainly—probably within that range.  But nevertheless, it’s  a meaningful cyclical shortfa ll.  It’s not completely—so I’m 
giving my own personal view, not a Committee assessment—that, you know, I see the flat—and 
given the underlying downward trend in labor force particip ation, we might interpret the 
flattening out of labor force par ticipation over the last year as  showing that that cyclical 
component has diminished somewhat.  I think ther e is something that remains, but eventually I 
would certainly agree with the authors, we  should expect over time to see labor force 
participation declining.  And then, let’s see, the s econd piece was— 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  Is the debate about lower-for-longer essentially over? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, you know, we stayed low for a very long time.  We have been 
at zero for a very long time and below the leve ls that some common policy rules would now be 
suggesting, given the level of unemployment and infl ation.  So the recovery has been very slow.  
We’ve also been doing unconventional policies, of course, buying assets.  And in a general 
sense, I think we have been lower for longe r than—if you complete that sentence—than many 
standard policy rules would suggest.  So, in a sens e, that is a policy that we have had.  And once 
we decide it’s appropriate to be gin to normalize policy and to rais e the level of our target for 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 17 of 22 short-term interest rates, it would still take some  time for rates to get back to levels—you can see 
in our projection that by the end of 2017, the partic ipants are, on average,  projecting that rates 
will reach the levels they consider normal in the longer run.  And, similarly, we could make a 
similar statement with respect to where th e funds rate would stand relative to the 
recommendations of rules.  So that would take some time to return to those kinds of levels. 
MARTIN CRUTSINGER.  Thank you.  Marty Crut singer with the Associated Press.  
Madam Chair, there were two dissents from toda y’s decision.  I’d kind of like to get your 
thinking on how you treat dissents.  I think in Chairman Bernanke ’s eight years, the largest 
number of dissents was three.  Do you see two dissents as a yellow-warning flashing light that 
policy may need to be moderated down the road ?  How should market participants read the 
dissents? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, I think it’s very natu ral that the Committee should have a range 
of opinion about a decision as crucial as what is  the right time to begin to normalize policy, and 
we do have a range of views in the Committee.   I don’t consider two dissents to be an 
abnormally large number.  Presidents Plosser and Fisher have been quite clear in all of their 
speeches recently in stating that they think the time has come to begin normalizing policy.  I 
think they, perhaps, have some concerns that if we don’t begin to do so soon that inflation will pick up above levels we—that they would consider desirable, or that they have some financial 
stability concerns.  But the Co mmittee adopted today’s statemen t by an overwhelming majority, 
and I don’t consider the level of dissent  to be surprising or very abnormal. 
GREG IP.  Greg Ip of The Economist .  There’s been another downgrade in your near-
term growth forecast and a downgrade in your unemployment rate path forecast.  Does it appear 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 18 of 22 that potential is much lower than you thought, a nd therefore slack is closing more quickly than 
you thought?  This seems to be a pers istent pattern to your forecasts.  
Secondarily, how concerned are you about even ts in Europe and especially the recent 
decline in inflation expectations there? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So there’s been  a little bit of dow ngrading, I think, ev en this time in 
the longer-run normal growth rates that Committ ee participants have written down.  You are 
certainly right in saying that over a number of y ears now, there’s been a pa ttern of forecast errors 
in which either we’ve been on track with resp ect to unemployment or unemployment has come 
down in some cases faster than we anticipated, and yet growth has pretty persistently been 
surprising the Committee to the downside.  And th at is a statement about  productivity growth, 
which has been pretty disappointing.  So we have had downward revisions in the level of 
potential output and to some exte nt, at least for a time, in the pr ojected pace of growth.  So that 
tension has been there.  
There are a range of views about long-run grow th.  A lot of people are writing about this 
topic.  I think the Committee’s longer-run estimates are neither at the most pessimistic end nor 
the most optimistic end. 
GREG IP.  I had a question about Europe. CHAIR YELLEN.  Oh, about Eu rope.  Well, I mean, you know, certainly we have 
discussed the outlook for Europe—the very low leve l of inflation that they have seen recently 
and the decline that they saw in inflationary expectat ions, in the slow pace of growth.  It is one of 
a number of risks to the global economy, and we cer tainly hope that they will be successful in 
seeing the pace of growth and inflation pick up, and I think that will be good for the global 
economy and the United States. 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 19 of 22 ROBIN HARDING.  Robi n Harding from the Financial Times .  Madam Chair, I want to 
come back to the forward guidance.  Quite a larg e part of the Committee has recently criticized 
the guidance as being calendar based.  But if I understood your comments earlier, that’s not 
correct.  How should people understand it?  And if it doesn’t have a defined meaning, what 
purpose is it actually serving?  And do you expect to  have to revisit it in the near future?  Thank 
you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So we are c onstantly discussing forward guidance and thinking about 
whether it’s appropriate and how to revise it.  And we did do a major overhaul of our forward 
guidance in March.  I think the Committee part icipants who have spoken out on this topic 
recently want to make sure that we have the fl exibility—that the Committee has the flexibility to 
respond to unfolding developments.  They want to ma ke sure that if progre ss really does turn out 
to be faster than we have—we would expect, th at the Committee will be in a position to start 
sooner tightening monetary policy.  They do not wa nt to be locked into something that the 
markets see as a calendar-based and firm commitment.  And so they want to emphasize data 
dependence of our policy and make sure that we have appropriate flexibil ity.  But I agree with 
that.  And, as I said earlier, I think we do not ha ve any mechanical interpretation that applies to 
this.  It, of course, gives an impression about wh at we think will be appropriate, but there is no 
mechanical interpretation.  And I’ve said repeat edly, and I want to say again, that if events 
surprise us, and we’re moving more quickly to ward our objectives, and the Committee sees a 
need to move sooner or later depending on what th e data is, that we do f eel—I do feel we have 
the flexibility to move.  And it is important fo r markets to understand that there is uncertainty, 
and this statement is not some sort of firm promise about a particular amount of time. 
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 20 of 22 STEVEN BECKNER.  Good afte rnoon, Chair Yellen.  Getting b ack to the one aspect of 
the forward guidance is the statement, which you’ ve reiterated about the funds rate probably 
needing to stay below normal for some time  after achieving mandate-consistent levels on 
unemployment, inflation, and so forth.  The SEP assessments of appropriate funds rate levels 
show the funds rate getting up to that 3.75 percen t normal level at the en d of 2017.  If you look at 
the SEP projections of unemployment, inflation, a nd so forth, they seem to get back to those 
mandate-consistent levels by the end of 2016, if not mu ch sooner.  So what is the justification for 
waiting that much longer to get back to normal, particularly when you have such a large balance 
sheet that you intend to reduce onl y gradually?  Is there a danger  of getting behind the curve? 
And, secondly, can I just ask, can you envision a time when, to reduce reserve pressures, 
you may have to resort to asset sa les that you don’t anticipate doing now? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So on the first question of “some time” before rates return to normal 
levels, as I mentioned, you can see in the SEP that by the end of 2017, many participants are 
anticipating that rates will return to what they think ar e normal longer-ru n levels, but the 
economy, in their view, will have probably gotten back to normal levels of unemployment and 
near-normal levels of inflation sometime in 2016.  So that looks like a year or more in which rates would be below normal longer-run levels. 
We asked participants why they hold the view s that they do about appropriate policy, and 
there are a number of different e xplanations that participants give .  But a common view on this is 
that there have been a variety of headwinds resulti ng from the crisis that have slowed growth, led 
to a sluggish recovery from the crisis, and that  these headwinds will dissipate only slowly, that 
they are dissipating—an example wo uld be the fact that mortgage credit really is, at this point, 
available really to those with pristine credit .  Credit conditions there are abnormally tight.  
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 21 of 22 Another thing that we se e is that households’ exp ectations about their likely income paths remain 
quite depressed relative to pre-crisis levels .  That’s something that may be holding back 
consumer spending.  So the view would be that  those forces will dissipate over time, but only 
very gradually.  In addition, we have had slow  productivity growth, and a slow pace of potential 
output likely depresses the pace of investment sp ending.  And so, those are some of the things 
that participants mention as why it will take some time to get back. 
So the story is, it’s not that the Fed is behind the curve in fa iling to return the funds rate 
to normal levels when the economy is recovered.  It is rather th at, in order to achieve such a 
recovery in 2016 or by the end, that it’s necessary  and appropriate to have a somewhat more 
accommodative policy than would be normal in the absence of those headwinds. 
PETER BARNES.  Peter Barnes of Fox Busi ness, ma’am.  I would like to follow up on 
Greg’s question about Europe, because to morrow Scotland is going to be voting on 
independence from Great Britain, and there’s some  concern that if it do es vote to break from 
Great Britain, that this could cause some turmoil in global fi nancial markets and the global 
economy.  Are you concerned about that?  Do you see any impact if Scotland does vote for independence on the European economy and poten tially on the American economy?  And, if so, 
is the Fed doing anything in prepar ation for that possibility?  Thank you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, Scottish  voters are about to go to the polls tomorrow, and 
they’ve had a good debate about this topic.  And in light of that, I really don’t want to weigh in 
on this today. 
PEDRO DA COSTA.  Thank you.  Pedro da Costa with Dow Jones Newswires.  My 
question is about your particular views about whether a gradual appr oach to tightening is better 
than a more aggressive and less predictable one, because there was some discussion about—
September 17, 2014   Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 22 of 22 internally and externally, about whether it was the Fed’s predicta bility in the 2004-ish period that 
kind of created the conditions of complacency th at led to the housing bubble.  So I wonder if 
you’d be more inclined to be gradualist in your approach and more transp arent in outlining future 
moves or whether you think keeping the market guessing—there’s some value to that.  Thanks. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  You know, this is somethi ng the Committee is going to have to 
discuss when the time comes to normalize polic y.  Looking back on the period, the run-up to the 
financial crisis, I don’t think, by any means, “m easured pace” and the very predictable pace of 
25 basis points per meeting explains why we had a financial crisis, but it  may have diminished 
volatility and been a small contributing factor, and the Committee will have to think about how 
to do this.  I think many people in the aftermath of that episode think that somewhat less of a 
mechanical pace would perhaps be better, but this is a matter that we will, in due time, have to 
discuss. 
