December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
  Page 1 of 23  Transcript of Chair Yelle n’s FOMC Press Conference  
December 17, 2014 
 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Good afternoon.  The Federa l Open Market Committee concluded its 
last meeting of the year earlier today.  As indicated in our policy statement, the FOMC 
“reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to ¼ percen t target range for the federal funds rate remains 
appropriate.”  The Committee also updated its forward guidance for the federal funds rate, 
indicating that “the Committee j udges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance 
of monetary policy.”  This new language does not represent a change  in our policy intentions and 
is fully consistent with our previous guidance, wh ich stated that it likely will be appropriate to 
maintain the current target range for the federal f unds rate for a considerable time after the end of 
our asset purchase program.  But with that pr ogram having ended in October, and the economy 
continuing to make progress toward our objectives, the Committee judged that some 
modification to our guidance is appr opriate at this time.  I will ha ve more to say about our policy 
decisions in a moment, but first let me review  recent economic developments and the outlook. 
In the labor market, progress continues toward the FOMC’s objective of maximum 
employment.  The pace of job growth has been strong recently, with job gains averaging nearly 
280,000 per month over the past 3 months; over the past 12 months, job gains averaged nearly 
230,000 per month.  The unemployment rate was 5.8 percent in November, three-tenths lower 
than the latest reading availabl e at the time of the September FO MC meeting.  Broader measures 
of labor market utilization have  shown similar improvement, and the labor force participation 
rate has leveled out.  As noted  in the FOMC statement, “unde rutilization of labor resources 
continues to diminish.”  Even so, there is r oom for further improvement, with too many people 
who want jobs being unable to find them, too ma ny who are working part time but would prefer 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 2 of 23  full-time work, and too many who ha ve given up searching for a j ob but would likely do so if the 
labor market were stronger. 
The Committee continues to see sufficient und erlying strength in the economy to support 
ongoing improvement in the labor market.  Real GDP looks to have increased robustly in the 
third quarter, reflecting solid consumption and investment spendi ng.  Smoothing through the 
quarterly ups and downs earlier this year, real GDP expanded around 2½ percent over the four 
quarters ending in the third quarter, and the availa ble indicators suggest that economic growth is 
running at roughly that pace in the current quar ter.  The Committee continues to expect a 
moderate pace of growth going forward. 
Inflation has continued to r un below the Committee’s 2 percen t objective, and the recent 
sizable declines in oil prices wi ll likely hold down overall inflation in the near term.  But as the 
effects of these oil price declines  and other transitory factors dissi pate and as resource utilization 
continues to rise, the Committee expects inflation to  move gradually back toward its objective.  
In making this forecast, the Committee is mindf ul of the recent declines in market-based 
measures of inflation compensation.  At this point, the Committee vi ews these movements as 
likely to prove transitory, and survey-based measur es of longer-term inflation expectations have 
remained stable.  That said, developments in this area obviously bear close watching. 
This outlook is reflected in the individua l economic projections submitted in conjunction 
with this meeting by the FOMC participants.  As always, each participant’s projections are 
conditioned on his or her own view of appropriate monetary policy.  The central tendency of the 
unemployment rate projections is slightly lowe r than in the September projections and now 
stands at 5.2 to 5.3 percent at the end of next year, in line w ith its estimated longer-run normal 
level.  Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declin ing a little further over 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 3 of 23  the course of 2016 and 2017.  The central tendency of the projections for real GDP growth is 
2.3 to 2.4 percent for 2014, up a bit from the September projections.  Over the next three years, the projections for real GDP growth run somewhat above the estimates of longer-run normal growth.  Finally, although FOMC pa rticipants project inflation in the near term to be lower on 
account of the decline in energy prices, they co ntinue to see inflation moving gradually back 
toward 2 percent.  The central tendency of the inflation projections is 1.0 to 1.6 percent next 
year, rising to 1.8 to 2.0 percent in 2017. 
As I noted earlier, the Committee “reaffirmed its view that the cu rrent 0 to ¼ percent 
target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate.”  Regarding forward guidance for the 
federal funds rate, our October statement indicated that it likely would be appropriate to maintain 
the current target range for the federal funds rate  for a considerable time following the end of our 
asset purchase program, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 
2 percent longer-run goal.  Today’s statement, which indicates that  “the Committee judges that it 
can be patient in beginning to normalize the stan ce of monetary policy,” does not signify any 
change in the Committee’s polic y intentions as set forth in its recent statements.  As before, this 
judgment is based on the Committee’s assessment of  realized and expected progress toward its 
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation—an assessment that is based on a 
wide range of information, includ ing measures of labor market c onditions, indicators of inflation 
pressures and inflation expectations, a nd readings on financial developments. 
Given that the Committee is not signaling a change in policy, why did we update our 
guidance?  The reason is that, with the asse t purchase program having been wound down in 
October, it seemed less helpful to continue to  communicate about the possible timing of our first 
rate increase with reference to an event that is re ceding into the past.  Inst ead, we have shifted to 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 4 of 23  language that better reflects the Committee’s focus on the economi c conditions that would make 
liftoff appropriate.  Employment is rising at a healthy rate and the U.S. economy is 
strengthening, reflecting, in part, a highly accomm odative stance of monetary policy.  Of course, 
inflation has been running somewhat below our go al of 2 percent, but we  project that gap to 
close gradually over time.  As progress in achieving maximum employment and 2 percent 
inflation continues, at some point it will become appropriate to begin reducing policy 
accommodation.  But, based on its current outlook, the Committee judges that it can be patient in 
doing so.  In particular, the Committee consider s it unlikely to begin the normalization process 
for at least the next couple of meetings. 
This assessment, of course, is completely data dependent.  If incoming information 
indicates faster progress toward the Committee’s employment and inflation objectives than the 
Committee now expects, then increases in the target  range for the federal funds rate are likely to 
occur sooner than curren tly anticipated.  Convers ely, if progress proves sl ower than expected, 
then increases in the target range are likel y to occur later than currently anticipated. 
Once we begin to remove policy accommoda tion, it continues to be the Committee’s 
assessment that, “even after employment and in flation are near manda te-consistent levels, 
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below 
levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.”  This guidance is consistent with the 
paths for appropriate policy given by FOMC pa rticipants.  Assuming that the economy evolves 
broadly in line with participants’ expectations, almost all participants believe that it will be 
appropriate to begin raising the target range for the federal funds rate in 2015. 
There are a range of views on the appropriate timing of liftoff within the year, in part 
reflecting differences in participants’ expectatio ns for how the economy will evolve.  By the time 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 5 of 23  of liftoff, participants expect to see some furt her decline in the unemplo yment rate and additional 
improvement in labor market conditions.  They also expect core inflat ion to be running near 
current levels but foresee being reasonably confid ent in their expectation that inflation will move 
back toward our 2 percent longer-run inflation obj ective over time.  Of course, as I previously 
emphasized, the timing of the initial rise in the fe deral funds rate target, as well as the path for 
the target thereafter,  are contingent on  economic conditions. 
By late 2016, the median projection for the federal funds rate, at 2.5 percent, remains 
more than 1 percentage point below the longer-ru n value of 3¾ percent or so projected by most 
participants, even though the centr al tendency of the unemployment rate by that time is slightly 
below its estimated longer-run value and the centr al tendency for inflation is close to our 
2 percent objective.  FOMC part icipants provide a number of explanations for the federal funds 
rate running below its normal longe r-run level at that time—in part icular, the residual effects of 
the financial crisis, which are likely to conti nue to constrain househol d spending and constrain 
credit availability for some time.  But as these f actors dissipate further, mo st participants expect 
the federal funds rate to move close to its longer-run normal level by the end of 2017. 
Finally, the Committee will continue its polic y of reinvesting proceeds from maturing 
Treasury securities and principal payments fr om holdings of agency debt and MBS.  The 
Committee’s sizable holdings of longer-term secu rities should help maintain accommodative 
financial conditions and promote further pr ogress toward our objectives of maximum 
employment and inflation of 2 percent. 
Thank you, and I’ll be happy to take your questions.  JON HILSENRATH.  Jon Hilsenrath from the Wall Street Journal .  Chair Yellen, a 
number of Fed officials have proj ected in the lead-up to this m eeting that the most likely timing 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 6 of 23  for liftoff was around the middle of next year.  I wonder if you could clarify that.  You said in 
your statement that “patient” means not for at least two meetings.  Your forecast that—the 
FOMC’s forecasts seem to be consistent with something like a middle-of-the-year liftoff.  Can 
you speak to that?  And can you also speak to the downdraft we’re seeing in inflation now and, 
in particular, the market-based inflation expect ations and whether that gives the Committee any 
hesitance about proceeding towards liftoff in the months ahead? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So I did say that the stat ement that the Committee can be patient 
should be interpreted as meaning that it is unlikely to begin the normalization process for at least 
the next couple of meetings.  Now, that doesn’t  point to any preset or  predetermined time at 
which normalization is—will begin.  There are a range of views on the Committee, and it will be 
dependent on how incoming data bear on the progress the ec onomy is making.   
First of all, I want to emphasize that no meeti ng is completely off the table, in the sense 
that if we do see faster progress toward our obj ectives than we currently expect, then it is 
possible that the process of nor malization would occur sooner than we now an ticipate.  And, of 
course, the converse is also true .  So, at this point, we thi nk it unlikely that it will be 
appropriate—that we will see conditions for at leas t the next couple of mee tings that will make it 
appropriate—for us to decide to begin normalizat ion.  A number of Committee participants have 
indicated that, in their view, conditions could be appropriate by the middle of next year, but there 
is no preset time.  And there are a range of vi ews as to when the appropriate conditions will 
likely fall in place.  So that’s something we will be watching closely as the year unfolds. 
You asked also, I think, about inflation.  A nd, as I mentioned in my press statement, 
especially with the downward pressures on inflat ion that we expect to see for a little while 
because of declining oil prices and falling import pr ices, we certainly expect headline inflation to 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 7 of 23  be under downward pressure for a while.  And, as I mentioned, most participants do envision that 
conditions will be appropriate sometime during th is coming year to begin normalizing policy.  
And they do largely expect that inflation will be—core inflation will probably be running close to its current level.  And headline inflation could ev en be lower.  But what they will want to have 
is a feeling of reasonabl e confidence that when we start the process of normalizing policy, that it 
will be moving up over time.  And, of course, as labor market conditions continue to improve, 
history suggests that as long as inflation expectations remain well anchored, that that’s likely to 
occur. 
MARTIN CRUTSINGER.  Marty Crutsinger wi th the Associated Press.  Given the—
what’s happening now with the transition with the Fed, there seems to be a pattern developing 
that the market expects big ne ws to come when you have a press conference and no news to 
come when you don’t have one.  But is that a goo d expectation?  And is  there any thought to 
starting to have a press c onference at every meeting? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So I would really like to di scourage that expectation.  Every meeting 
that we have is a live meeting at which th e Committee could make a policy decision.  And we 
will feel free to do so.  So I would really like to strongly disc ourage the expectation that policy 
moves can only occur when there’s a scheduled press conference.  And we have long had in 
place the ability to hold a press c onference call, rather than an in-person press conference.  And 
we did do so on a number of occasions in earlier years.  So the Committee, clearly, would want 
to be able to explain its reasoning.  As we  begin the process of normalizing policy, every 
meeting is live.  And if we were to decide at a meeting to begin to normalize policy, I expect we 
would hold a press conference call. 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 8 of 23  STEVE LIESMAN.  Was there concern—S teve Liesman, CNBC—was there concern 
expressed at the meeting that the signal comi ng from markets—and a variety of markets—lower 
oil prices, lower yields around the world, was one of deflation, and that that risk was one that 
should, perhaps, overshadow the concer n about inflation on the other side? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, thanks Steve.  We’re very attentive to global developments and 
certainly discuss them in the meeting.  The very s ubstantial decline we have seen in oil prices is 
one of the most important developments shaping th e global outlook.  It will have different effects 
in different regions and could well have effects on financial markets, as we are seeing.  I think 
the judgment of the Committee is that, from the standpoint of the United States and the U.S. 
outlook, that the decline we have seen in oil pri ces is likely to be, on net, a positive.  It’s 
something that’s certainly good for families, for households.  It’s putting more money in their 
pockets.  Having to spend less on gas and energy, a nd so, in that sense, it’s like a tax cut that 
boosts their spending power.  The United Stat es remains—although our production of oil has 
increased dramatically, we still remain a net importe r of oil.  Of course there may be some offset 
in the form of reduced drilling activity, and possibly some change, some reduction in cap-ex 
plans in the drilling area.  But, on balance, I w ould see these developments as a positive for the 
standpoint of the U.S. economy. 
With respect to deflation, we see downward pr essure on headline inflation from declining 
energy prices.  We certainly recognize that that  is going to be pushing down headline inflation 
and may even spill over, to some extent, to core inflation.  But, at this point, although we indicated we’re monitoring inflation developmen ts carefully, we see these developments as 
transitory.  And the Committee continues to be lieve—especially with the improvement we’re 
seeing in the labor market, which we expect to continue—that inflation will move back up to our 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 9 of 23  2 percent objective over time.  As I indicated, we will want to feel, I believe, that people will 
expect to feel reasonably confident about th at when they—when the process of normalization 
begins.  But we do expect them to be transitory. 
ROBIN HARDING.   Robin Harding from the Financial Times .  Madame Chair, there’s a 
big gap between the pace markets expect you to rais e interest rates and th e rate you’ve indicated 
in your “dot plot.”  Are markets mis understanding your intentions?  Thank you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So that’s difficult for me to  say.  What I want to say is that our 
objective is to communicate as clearly as we pos sibly can about our plans and how we see the 
economic environment unfolding.  When the pa rticipants in the Committee fill out their 
projections, they’re asked to give  the path of the federal funds rate and of the various economic 
variables that they consider most likely.  They’re not asked to talk about all the different things 
that could happen, recognizing there is uncertaint y, and the paths of the funds rate that they 
would consider appropriate if t hose other alternatives were to happen.  But other alternatives, I 
think, are priced into the market.  And one reason  that the market prices may be different than 
the Committee’s is because they place probability on other outcomes that look different than what they regard as the modal forecast.  They ma y also have a different set of expectations about 
how the—about the economic outlook and how it’s lik ely to unfold.  So I recognize that there are 
significant differences.  I can’t tell you exactly wh at they’re due to.  But what I do want to do is 
communicate as clearly as I can, on behalf of the Committee, how we think the economy’s likely 
to progress and how we would likel y set the federal funds rate over time if that forecast bears 
out. 
ROBIN HARDING.  It doesn’t make you uncomfortable, where markets are now? 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 10 of 23  CHAIR YELLEN.  There are a number of different  factors that are b earing on the path of 
market interest rates, I think, in cluding global economic developments .  It is often the case that 
when oil prices move down and the dollar apprecia tes, that that tends to put downward pressure 
on inflation compensation and on longer-term rates.  We also have safe-haven flows that may be 
affecting longer-term Treasury yields.  So I can’t tell you exactly what is driving market 
developments.  But what I can say is that we  are trying to communicat e our thoughts as clearly 
as we can. 
STEVEN MUFSON.  Hi.  Steve Mufson from the  Washington Post .  I was just hoping 
you could go into a little more detail about the oil effect.  Even though you see it as transitory, 
does that give you a little more  room to keep rates low in the next few months?  And if—
alternately, if prices bounce bac k, what’s that going to do to your  ability to change rates, and 
how might you react to that? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well I—I’d sa y, you know, that I think what we have seen since the 
mid-’80s is that, in an environment where in flation expectations ar e well anchored, that 
movements in oil and commodity pr ices and import prices tend to have transitory effects on the 
inflation outlook.  There were many years in which we  had unanticipated increa ses in oil prices,   
really beginning in 2004 and 2005, that put upwar d pressure on headline inflation and sometimes 
even spilled through into core, and, typicall y, the Committee looked through those impacts on 
inflation with the view that they would be transi tory.  And I think experience bears out that they 
were transitory.  And I think that’s the Committee’s expectati on here.  Inflation, even core 
inflation, has been running below our inflation objective.  Movements in oil, you know, now 
down and perhaps later up, will move inflation around, certainly headline inflation.  But the 
Committee, at this point, anticipates those impacts to be transitory.  So as long as participants 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 11 of 23  feel reasonably confident that the inflation pr ojection is one where we  expect to meet our 
2 percent objective ove r time, that’s what I thi nk how they’ll be looking at  things as we decide 
on the path for the funds rate. 
BINYAMIN APPELBAUM.  Binya Appelbaum, New York Times .  Does “a couple” 
mean two?  And when you talk about reasonab le confidence in infla tion expectations, can you 
elaborate a little bit a bout what it would take to give you re asonable confidence that inflation is 
headed back to 2 percent? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So “a couple”—I believe th e dictionary probably says, “a couple” 
means two.  So, “a couple” means tw o.  And with respect to infl ation—our forecast for inflation 
and inflation expectations, let me start by saying I think it’s important th at monetary policy be 
forward looking.  The lags in monetary policy are long, and, therefore, the Committee has to 
base its decisions on how to set the federal funds rate looking into the future.  Theory is 
important, and theories that are consistent with  historical evidence will be something that 
governs the thinking of many people around the table.  Typically, we have seen that as long as 
inflation expectations are well anchored, that as  the labor market recove rs, we’ll gradually see 
upward pressure on both wages and prices, and th at inflation will tend to move back toward 
2 percent.  I think historically we have see n, as the economy strengthens and slack diminishes, 
that inflation does tend to gr adually rise over time.  And as long—you know, I—just speaking 
for myself, I will be looking for evidence that I think strengthens my confidence in that view 
and, you know, looking at the full range of data th at bear on whether or not that’s a reasonable 
view of how events will unfold.  But it’s likely to be a decision  that’s based on forecasts and 
confidence in the forecast. 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 12 of 23  MICHAEL FLAHERTY.  Michael  Flaherty, Reuters News.  Chair Yellen, a lot of 
attention has been focused on liftoff.  But, I wonder, has the Committee discussed what happens 
after that liftoff and what, you know, the rate path would be after you make the first move? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So, I think you raise a very important poin t because, although there is 
a great deal of market focus on the timing of liftoff, what to ma tter in thinking about the stance 
of policy is what the entire path of interest ra tes will look like.  And I re ally don’t have much for 
you other than to say that they will be data de pendent—that, over time, the stance of policy will 
be adjusted to try to keep the economy on a tr ack where we see contin uing progress toward 
achieving our goals of maximum employment and price stability.  There’s—you know, the 
federal funds rate has been sitting in the 0 to ¼ percent range now for six years.  This is—and we 
have a very large balance sheet.  We are pr oviding a very highly accommodative monetary 
policy.  And even as we begin to normalize the stance of monetary polic y, when that becomes 
appropriate, it’s important to remember that monetary policy will stil l be very accommodative 
for a long time.  And as we begin to normalize policy, we will be looking  at unfolding economic 
developments.  And as the economy strengthen s, and we come clos er to achieving our 
objectives, I think it’s very likely that we w ill, you know, progress on the path of normalizing 
policy.  But I can’t tell you, specifically, other th an saying it will depend on progress, and moves 
will be data dependent.  I can’t  say much more than that. 
GREG IP.  Chair Yellen, the Committee’ s projections show unemployment running 
below your own views on where full em ployment should be for the next several years.  Does that 
reflect a desire on the part of the Committee th at the economy run somewhat above potential for 
a while?  And, if so, can you ela borate on why it wants that and what purpose it achieves?  And, 
related to the question that Jon Hilsenrath aske d earlier, you’ve called the decline in inflation—
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 13 of 23  and market-based measures of inflation expectati ons—transitory.  But this decline has been very 
pronounced in the five-year-forward range.  So we ’re talking about expect ations that inflation 
many years from now will be below target.  And some  market participants see that as evidence of 
declining credibility in the Committee’s long-ter m objective.  Why do you still view that as 
transitory? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So you—your fi rst question is:  Why is it that the Committee sees 
unemployment as declining sligh tly below its estimate of the longer-run natura l rate?  And, I 
think, in part, the reason for that is that in flation is running below our objective, and the 
Committee wants to see inflation move back towa rd our objective over time .  And a short period 
of a very slight undershoot of unemployment below th e natural rate will facili tate a slightly faster 
return of inflation to our object ive.  It is, I should say, a very small undershoot in a situation 
where there is great uncertainty about exactly  what constitutes maximum employment or a 
longer-run normal rate of unemployment.  We also  do see the different measures of slack in the 
labor market point to different assessments of just what maximum employment is.  The standard 
unemployment rate, for quite some time now, has b een signaling a little bit less slack in the labor 
market than measures that are somewhat broade r that, for example, include the unusually large 
number of people who were part-time employed but  would prefer full-time jobs.  And the portion 
of the decline we’ve seen in la bor force participation, that look s like it would disa ppear in a—or 
be eroded in a stronger economy.  And so it may be  that with a very small undershoot of this 
longer-run normal level of the unemployment ra te, as measured by the standard unemployment 
rate, we’ll be seeing some further progress on those other margins of slack.  But it’s important to 
point out that the Committee is not anticipating an ove rshoot of its 2 percent inflation objective. 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 14 of 23   Oh, and longer-dated expectations.  Well, wh at I would say, we refer to this in the 
statement as “inflation compensation” rather than  “inflation expectations.”  The gap between the 
nominal yields on 10-year Treasuries, for exam ple, and TIPS have declined—that’s inflation 
compensation.  And five-year, five-year-forwards, as you’ve said, have al so declined.  That 
could reflect a change in inflati on expectations, bu t it could also reflect ch anges in assessment of 
inflation risks.  The risk prem ium that’s necessary to compen sate for inflation, that might 
especially have fallen if the proba bilities attached to very high in flation have come down.  And it 
can also reflect liquidity effects in markets.  And, for example, it’s sometimes the case that—
when there is a flight to safety, that flight te nds to be concentrated in nominal Treasuries and 
could also serve to compress that spread.  So I th ink the jury is out about exactly how to interpret 
that downward move in inflation compensation.  And we indicated that we are monitoring 
inflation developments carefully. 
PETER COOK.  Madame Chair, Peter Cook of Bloomberg Television.  I want to follow 
up, if I could, on firming going forward, on the nor malization once liftoff takes place.  I know 
you said this is going to be data dependent.  Does that suggest to markets, to those watching, that 
the measured pace we’ve seen in a previous tighten ing cycle, those quarter- point increments, that 
that’s not something markets shoul d expect?  And what’s your ow n takeaway from how effective 
that measured pace was back in th at previous tightening cycle?   
And if I could follow up just separately on the dissents at this meeti ng.  There were three 
dissents, a notable number, certainly.  What doe s that suggest about the debate around the table 
and your ability to forge consensus going forwar d?  Are you disappointed with the number of 
dissents? 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 15 of 23  CHAIR YELLEN.  So let me start with the number  of dissents.  There is a wide range of 
opinion in the Committee.  I think it ’s appropriate for people to be able to express their views.  
And, in a sense, you see dissents on both sides.   I think the statement does a good job of 
reflecting what the majority of the Committee th inks is appropriate policy.  So at—you know, at 
a time like this, where we are making consequential d ecisions, I think it’s ve ry reasonable to see 
divergences of opinion.  And just remi nd me, what was the other—about the— 
PETER COOK.  Measured pace. CHAIR YELLEN.  —measured pace.  There certainly has been no, you know, decision 
on the part of the Committee to move at a meas ured pace or to use language like that.  I think 
quite a few people, looking back on the use of th at language in the—I can’t remember if it was 
12 or 16 meetings, where there were 25 basis point moves.  We’d probably not like to repeat a 
sequence in which there was a measured pace and 25 basis point moves at every meeting.  So I 
certainly don’t want to encourage you to thi nk that there will be a repeat of that.  
Many members of the Committee, participants, ha ve said that they think policy should be 
based on the actual evolution of economic activity and inflation, wh ich tends to be variable over 
time, and that’s why I say I anticipate it will be data dependent.  We have continued to provide 
guidance, the same guidance that we have for so me time, that says the Committee “anticipates 
that, even after employment and inflation ar e near mandate-consistent levels, economic 
conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping th e target federal funds rate below levels the 
Committee views as normal in the longer run.”   
I know that’s a mouthful, but it says, in eff ect, that the Committee believes that the 
economic conditions that have made recovery di fficult, we’re getting beyond them.  They are 
optimistic that those conditions will lift.  They see the longer-run normal level of interest rates as 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 16 of 23  around 3¾ percent.  So there’s no view in the Co mmittee that there is secular stagnation in the 
sense that we won’t eventually get back to pretty historically normal levels of interest rates.  But 
they have said, it’ll, you know , the economy has required to get where it is a good deal of 
monetary policy accommodation; we expect to be  able to normalize policy.  But, until those 
conditions have lifted that have held back economic activity, mone tary policy will need to stay 
accommodative.  So, in that sense, perhaps that ’s equivalent to saying that the path of 
normalization is anticipated to be relatively gradua l.  But, again, the path of rates will depend on 
how economic conditions actually evolve, and that ’s nothing more than an expectation on the 
part of the Committee. 
PEDRO DA COSTA.  Pedro da Costa with Do w Jones Newswires.  Enough about rates.  
I want to ask you about the New York Fed.  The Ne w York Fed’s been in the news a lot lately.  
President Dudley was invited to Congress to testify about conflicts  of interest there.  You had 
things like the Segarra tapes, the Beim report, and, most recently, the revelation that a former 
New York Fed official was exchanging informa tion with someone at Goldman Sachs who was 
also—had New York Fed connections.  I just w onder—and also there were  scandals during the 
crisis related to Stephen Friedman regarding the New York Fed, and his purchase of Goldman 
Sachs stock.  Do you see the New York Fed as a black mark on the Fed system because of these recurring scandals?  Have you talked to Bill Dudley  about reforming the image of that particular 
regional Fed?  And do you think a person that ha s—that spent 21 years of  his career at Goldman 
Sachs is in a position to regain public cr edibility about conf licts of interest? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, let me say that I th ink it’s very important for the Federal 
Reserve System to have confidence in the quality  of its supervision.  And I do have a good deal 
of confidence in the quality of our supervision program, fo r the banking organizations we 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 17 of 23  supervise in general, and that also applies to  the largest banking organizations.  We rely on 
examiners who are in the field and at the Re serve Banks to be provi ding information about 
what’s happening in those organizations.  But that  information feeds into a process in which it is 
not individuals at any single Reserve Bank.  But,  at the Board, it’s a Board-led process, and it 
involves senior officials at a number of different  Reserve Banks.  It’s also a multidisciplinary 
process that involves not only pe ople from supervision, but those from markets, from economic 
research.  Experts who focus on financial stability all come together to evaluate the information 
that they have and to assign supe rvisory ratings and decide on th e appropriate program for all of 
those large institutions.  We’ve strengthened th e process of supervision enormously since the 
crisis, and I feel a very good sense of confidence in how we’re carrying that out. 
Now, it is important to make sure that we ha ve fed into this process all the information 
that’s relevant to making the right decisions.  An d when there are individuals who are examiners, 
who may disagree with others in their team about how to interpre t what’s going on at a particular 
institution, it’s important that ther e be channels by which they can make sure that disagreements 
are fed up to the highest levels.  This is tr ue throughout the work we do.  We do economic 
forecasting, and our—the FOMC receives informati on to help us make decisions, but obviously 
there are disagreements about—among economists a bout how to interpret developments.  It’s 
also important for us there to make sure we unders tand alternative views.  So  this is important in 
supervision.  We’ve announced that the Board has undertaken a review of whether or not there 
are appropriate mechanisms in place in all of th e Reserve Banks that individuals who disagree 
with decisions can make their own views known and feed into the process, and we’ve also asked 
our inspector general to look into that. 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 18 of 23  JEFF KEARNS.  Thank you.  Jeff K earns from Bloomberg News.  I’d also like to get off 
monetary policy and ask you a bout the Federal Reserve’s re lationship with Congress.  
Specifically, how worried are you about legislati on that has been proposed, and may be proposed 
again in the next Congress, th at would reduce Fed independence?  Would you see yourself trying 
to fight back?  Or would you see yourself trying to  go to Congress to work with them to do more 
with transparency or something else to reduce their co ncerns without making them law?  And, if 
there were bills sent to the White  House, would you talk to the President about vetoing them?  Or 
do you have any confidence that he would veto b ills that would reduce the Fed’s independence?  
Thanks. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So let me simply say that Congress has assigned us  important tasks in 
monetary policy and in other role s that we perform, and the Fede ral Reserve is highly focused on 
attempting to carry out the mandates that Congress has given us in the area of monetary policy.  
It’s our dual mandate to promote maximum empl oyment and price stability, and that’s what 
we’re working on.  
You know, I would say that the ability of a central bank to make the decisions about 
monetary policy that it regards as  in the best longer-run interest s of the economy, free of short-
run political interference,  is very important to the effective conduct of monetary policy.  And I 
think that history shows, not onl y in the United States but arou nd the world, that central bank 
independence promotes better economic performan ce.  So I do think central bank independence 
is very important, and that it’s  important to make sure that we  can make the decisions we think 
are best, free of short-run political inte rference with respect to monetary policy. 
We should be accountable, and we are accountable  to Congress in explaining what we do.  
I believe strongly in transparency, and I believ e strongly that we shoul d communicate as clearly 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 19 of 23  what we are doing and the rationale for doing it , and I am very open to looking for ways 
ourselves to improve our communications and tr ansparency, and working with Congress to do 
that.  But I would be very concerned about ac tions.  Back in 1978, Congr ess explicitly passed 
legislation to ensure that there would be no GAO audits of monetary policy decisionmaking— 
namely, policy audits.  I certainly hope that will continue, and I will try to forcefully make the 
case for why that’s important. 
JEFF KEARNS.  Would it veto? CHAIR YELLEN.  I cannot speak for the White House.  I wouldn’t attempt to do that. 
PETER BARNES.  Peter Barnes of Fox Busine ss, ma’am.  And also, I’ll stay off of 
interest rates.  And first, I want to wish you happy holidays. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Thank you. PETER BARNES.  And, second, I want to ask you about the Russian economy.  Did that 
come up in the meeting in your discussion a bout the global economic developments?  As you 
know, there’s a lot of con cern that with the drop in oil pric es, the Russian economy could be in 
some trouble.  Russia owes a lot of money to U.S.  and foreign banks and Russian companies.  Is 
there any concern about default?  Any concern about possible contag ion?  And, if so, has the Fed 
taken any steps to prepare for that?  Thank you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Well, we certainly did review global economic developments, 
including developments in the Russian economy.  Clearly, Russia has been hit very hard by the 
decline in oil prices, and the ru ble has depreciated enormously in  value, and this is posing a 
series of very difficult economic conditions in the Russian economy. 
Of course we discussed what the potential spi llovers are to the United States, which could 
occur both through trade and financia l linkages.  But these linkages ar e actually relatively small.  
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 20 of 23  Russia accounts for less than 1 percent of U.S. trade volume, and U.S. banks’ exposure to 
Russian residents is really quite small in terms of—relative to their capit al.  In terms of the 
portfolios of U.S. residents, there are Russian securities, but th ey are—they account for a very 
small share.  So I expect that the linkages back  to the spillovers to the United States, both 
through trade and financial channels, would be sm all.  Europe, of course, is somewhat more 
exposed to Russia, both because Russia is an impor tant supplier of oil and natural gas to Europe 
and the financial linkages are somewhat greater.  But, in the case of the United States, I see the 
spillovers relative—it is pret ty small.  But we’re obviously watching that closely. 
GREG ROBB.  Greg Robb from Ma rketWatch.  Also, happy holidays. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  Thank you.  Same to you. GREG ROBB.  There’s a contag ion risk to the—from low oil prices that people are 
talking about in the markets.  What does it mean  to the banks that have lent, you know, into the 
oil patch with the low oil prices?  And I guess, you know, your warnings about leveraged 
loans—you have made warnings over the past y ear about leveraged lending.  Are you worried 
that they haven’t be en heeded?  Thank you. 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So, I mean, there is some—you ’re talking about in the United States 
exposure?  I mean, we have seen some impacts of lower oil prices on the spreads for high-yield 
bonds, where there’s exposure to oil companies that may see distress or  a decline in their 
earnings, and we have seen some increase in spr eads on high-yield bonds more generally.  I think 
for the banking system, as a whole, the exposure to oil—I’m not aware of significant issues 
there.  This is the kind of thing that is part of risk management for banking organizations and the 
kind of thing they look at in stre ss tests.  But the movements in oil prices have been very large 
and undoubtedly unexpected.  
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 21 of 23  We—in terms of leverage, and whether or not levered entities could be badly affected by 
movements in oil prices, leverage in the financ ial system, in general, is way down from the 
levels before the crisis.  So it’s not a major con cern that there are levere d entities that would be 
badly affected by this, but we’ll have to watch carefully.  There have be en large and unexpected 
movements in oil prices. 
STEVE BECKNER.  Good after noon, Chair Yellen.  Steve Beckner of MNI.  I will go 
back to interest rates, if you don’t mind.  Actual ly, it’s a question about balance sheet effects on 
the overall appropriate le vel of monetary policy.  In reaffirming the reinvestment policy, the 
FOMC says, once again, that this will help maintain accommodative financial conditions.  In the 
past, it’s said that the large portfolio of securities will exer t a downward effect on long-term 
interest rates.  As you look forward to raising sh ort-term rates, to what extent does the FOMC 
need to take into account this sort of resi dual, accommodative effect of maintaining a large 
balance sheet? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So I agree, and that’s why we  stated that we typically think of the 
monetary policy impact of our a sset purchases as depending on the stock of assets that we hold 
on our balance sheet rather than the flow of purchases, and so we ’re reminding the public that we 
continue to hold a large stock of assets, and that is tending to push down term premiums in 
longer-term yields.  We made clear when we—or  tried to make clear—when we issued our 
normalization principles in September that we inte nd to use changes in our target for the federal 
funds rate as the main tool that we will actively use to adjust financial conditions.  Rather than 
actively planning to sell the assets that we’v e put onto our balance sheet, sometime after we 
begin raising our targets for s hort-term interest rates, depending on economic and financial 
conditions, we’re likely to reduc e or cease reinvestment and gra dually run down the stock of our 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 22 of 23  assets.  But our active tool for adjusting monetary —the stance of monetary  policy so that it is 
appropriate for the economic needs for the countr y, that will be done through adjusting our short-
term target range for the federal funds rate. 
KEVIN HALL.  Kevin Hall with McClatc hy Newspapers.  I can’t believe nobody’s 
asked you the most important question, about what ’s going on with your San Francisco 49ers, 
since everybody’s already wi shed you a happy holiday.  
Can you talk a little bit about housing?  Few things are more  important to Americans in 
their wealth creation than housing.  You’ve, in your statement, not ed that it continues to be a 
drag.  Mr. Dudley has—was actually  relatively upbeat in his foreca st.  I don’t know if that’s a 
view shared on the Committee.  What do you thi nk is holding housing back?  What can Congress 
do?  What will you tell Congress in the coming year?  And more—and a clarification on the 
Dudley question from earlier.  You didn’t mentio n him by name in your being pleased by quality 
of supervision.  Are you pleased with Mr. Dudley’s handling of the events? 
CHAIR YELLEN.  So let me start with that .  I have great conf idence in President 
Dudley.  He’s done a fine job in  running the New York Fed, and I want to be very clear that I 
have great confidence in him.  He’s a distinguished public serv ant, and he has worked very hard 
in the aftermath of the crisis to make sure that  the New York Fed is doing  all that it needs to do 
to contribute to the work that we do both in fina ncial stability and in supe rvision.  And let’s see, 
the other question that you asked was about— 
KEVIN HALL.  Housing. CHAIR YELLEN.  —about housing.  So, you know , I’ve been surprised that housing 
hasn’t recovered more robustly than it has.  In part, I think it refl ects very tight credit—
continuing tight credit conditions for any borrower that doesn’t ha ve really pristine credit, you 
December 17, 2014 Chair Yellen’s Press Conference FINAL 
 
Page 23 of 23  know, credit ratings, and my hope is that that situation will ease over time.  In addition, 
household formation has been very depressed, and my expectation is that , as the labor market 
continues to improve and households feel better about their financial condition, that we will see 
household formation pick up and a somewhat str onger recovery than we’ve seen thus far in 
housing. 
