 
 
For release at 2 p.m. EDT  June 13 , 2018 
 
Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in May indicates 
that the labor market has continued to strengthen and that economic activity has been rising at a 
solid rate.  Job gains have been strong, on average, in recent months, and t he unemployment rate 
has declined.  Recent data suggest that growth of household spending has picked up, while 
business fixed investment has continued to grow strongly.  On a 12 -month basis, both overall 
inflation and inflation for items other than food an d energy have moved close to 2 percent.  
Indicators of longer -ter m infla tio n expectations are little changed, on balance.  
Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum 
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects th at further gradual increases in the 
target range for the federal funds rate will be consistent with sustained expansion of economic 
activity, strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee's symmetric 2 percent 
objective over the medium t erm.  Risks to the economic o utlook appear roughly balanced. 
In view of realized and expected labor market conditions and inflation, the Committee 
decided to raise the target range for the federal funds rate to 1 -3/4 to 2 percent.  The stance of 
monetary p olicy remains accommodative, thereby supporting strong labor market conditions and 
a sustained  return to 2 percent inflation.  
In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range for the federal 
funds rate, the Committee will assess  realized and expected economic conditions relative to its 
maximum employment objective and its symmetric 2 percent inflation objective.  This 
assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor 
market conditio ns, ind icators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on 
financ ia l and internatio na l developments.  
Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chairman; 
Willia m C. Dudley, Vice Chairma n; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Lael Brainard; 
Loretta J. Mester; Randal K. Quarles; and John C. Williams.  
- 0 - 

For release at 2 p.m. EDT  June 13 , 2018 
 
Decisions Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation  
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary policy stance 
announced by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in its statement  on June  13, 2018:  
• The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously  to raise the 
interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances to 1.95 percent, effective 
June 14, 2018.  Setting the interest rate paid on require d and excess reserve balances 
5 basis points below the top of the target range for the federal funds ra te is intended to 
foster trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the FOMC’s target range.  
• As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to authorize and 
direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of N ew York, until instructed 
otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance 
with the following domestic policy directive :  
“Effective June 14, 2018, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the Desk to 
undertake open marke t operations as necessary to maintain the federal funds rate 
in a target range of 1 -3/4 to 2 percent, including overnight reverse repurchase 
operations (and reverse repurchase operations with maturities of more than one 
day when necessary to accommodate we ekend, holiday, or similar trading 
conventions) at an offering rate of 1.75  percent, in amounts limited only by the 
value of Treasury securities held outright in the System Open Market Account 
that are available for such operations and by a per -counterpart y limit of 
$30 billio n per day.  
The Committee directs the Desk to continue rolling over at auction the amount of 
principal payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities 
maturing during June that exceeds $18  billio n, and to continue re investing in 
agency mortgage -backed securities the amount of principal payments from the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage -backed 
securities received during June that exceeds $12  billion.  Effective in July, the 
Committee direct s the Desk to roll over at auction the amount of principal 
payments from the Federal Reserve’s holdings of Treasury securities maturing 
during each calendar month that exceeds $24  billion, and to reinvest in agency 
mortgage -backed securities the amount of principal payments from the Federal 
Reserve’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage -backed securities 
received during each calendar month that exceeds $16  billio n.  Small deviatio ns 
from these  amounts for operational reasons are acceptable.  
The Commi ttee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap 
transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve’s agency 
mortgage -backed securities transactions.”  
(more)  
For release at 2 p.m. EDT  June 13 , 2018 
- 2 - 
• In a related action, the Board of Governors of t he Federal Reserve System voted 
unanimously to approve a 1/4 percentage point increase in the primary credit rate   to 2.50 
percent, effective June 14, 2018.  In taking this action, the Board approved requests to 
establish that rate submitted by the Boards of Directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of  
Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco.  
This information will be updated as appropriate to reflect decisions of the Federal Op en Market 
Committee or the Board of Governors regarding details of the Federal Reserve’s operational 
tools and approach used to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on the 
Federal Reser ve Bank of New York’s website . 
