    
 
 
  
For release at 2 p.m. EDT       November 3 , 2021 
The Federal Reserve is committed to using its full range of tools to support the 
U.S. economy in this challenging time, thereby promoting its maximum employment 
and price stability goals.  
With progress on vaccinations and strong policy support, indicators of economic 
activity and employment have continued to strengthen.  The sectors most adversely affected by the pandemic have improved in recent months, but the summer’s  rise in  
COVID- 19 cases has slowed their recovery.  Inflation is elevated, largely reflecting 
factors  that are expected to be transitory .  Supply and demand imbalances related to 
the pandemic and the reopening of the economy have contributed to sizable price increases i n some sectors.  Overall financial conditions remain accommodative, in 
part reflecting policy measures to support the economy and the flow of credit to U.S. households and businesses. 
The path of the economy continues to depend on the course of the virus.  Progress 
on vaccinations and an easing of supply constraints are expected to support continued gains in economic activity and employment as well as a reduction  in inflation.  R isks 
to the economic outlook remain.  
The Committee seeks to achieve maximum employment and inflation at the rate 
of 2 percent over the longer run.  With inflation having run persistently below this longer -run goal, the Committee will aim to achieve inflation mode rately above 
2 percent for some time so that inflation averages 2  percent over time and longer ‑term 
inflation expectations remain well anchored at 2  percent.  The Committee expects to 
maintain an accommodative stance of monetary policy until these outcomes are achieved.  The Committee decided to keep the target range for the federal funds rate  
(more)  

    
 
 
 For release at 2 p.m. EDT       November 3, 2021 
-2- 
 
at 0 to 1/4 percent and expects it will be appropriate to maintain this target range until 
labor market conditions have reached levels consistent with the Committee’s 
assessments of maximum employment and inflation has risen to 2  percent and is on 
track to moderately exceed 2  percent for some time.  In light of the substantial further 
progress the economy has made toward the Committee’s goals  since last December , 
the Committee decided to begin reducing the monthly pace of its net asset purchases 
by $10 billion for Treasury securities and $5 billion for agency mortgage -backed 
securities.   Beginning later this month , the Committee will  increase its holdings of 
Treasury securities by at least $70 billion per month and of agency mortgage ‑backed 
securities by at least $35 billion per month.  Beginning in December, the Committee 
will increase its holdings of Treasury securities by at least $60 billion per month and 
of agency mortgage -backed securities by at least $30 billion per month.  T he 
Committee judges that similar reductions in the pace of net asset purchases will likely 
be appropriate each month, but it is prepared to adjust the pace of purchases if 
warranted by changes in the economic outlook.  The Federal Reserve’s ongoing  
purchases and holdings of securities w ill continue to  foste r smooth market 
functioning and accommodative financial conditions, thereby supporting the flow of 
credit to households and businesses.  
In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will 
continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook.  The Committee would be prepared to adjust the stance of monetary policy as ap propriate if risks emerge that could impede the attainment of the Committee’s 
goals.  The Committee’s assessments will take into account a wide range of information, including readings on public health, labor market conditions, inflation pressures and infl ation expectations, and financial and international developments . 
(more)  
    
 
 
 For release at 2 p.m. EDT       November 3, 2021 
-3- 
 
Voting for the monetary policy action were Jerome H. Powell, Chair; John C. 
Williams, Vice Chair; Thomas I. Barkin; Raphael W. Bostic; Michelle W. Bowman; Lael 
Brainard; Richard H. Clarida; Mary C. Daly; Charles L. Evans; Randal K. Quarles; and Christopher  J. Waller.  
-0- 
 
   
F
or release at 2 p.m. EDT November 3, 2021 
Decisions Regarding M onetary P olicy Im plementation  
The Federal Reserve has made the following decisions to implement the monetary 
policy stance announced by the Federal Op en Market Committee in its statement on 
November 3, 2021: 
•The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted unanimously to
maintain the interest rate paid on reserve balances at 0.15 percent, effective
November 4, 2021.
•As part of its policy decision, the Federal Open Market Committee voted to
authorize and direct the Open Market Desk at the Federal Reserve Bank of NewYork, until instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the System Open MarketAccount in accordance with the following domestic policy directive:
“Effective November 4, 2021, the Federal Open Market Committee directs the 
Desk to: 
oUndertake open market operations as necessary to maintain thefederal funds rate in a target range of 0 to 1/4 percent.
oComplete the increase in System Open Market Account (SOMA)
holdings of Treasury securities by $80 billion and of agencymortgage -backed securities (MBS) by $40 billion, as indicated in the
monthly purchase plans released in mid-October.
oIncrease the SOMA holdings of Treasury securities by $70 billion andof agency MBS by $35 billion, during the monthly purchase periodbeginning in mid-November.
oIncrease the SOMA holdings of Treasury securities by $60 billion andof agency MBS by $30 billion, during the monthly purchase periodbeginning in mid- December.
oIncrease holdings of Tre asury securities and agency MBS by
additional amounts as needed to sustain smooth functioning ofmarkets for these securities.
oConduct overnight repurchase agreement operations with a minimumbid rate of 0.25 percent and with an aggregate operation limit of $500billion; the aggregate operation limit can be temporarily increased atthe discretion of the Chair.
oConduct overnight reverse repurchase agreement operations at anoffering rate of 0.05 percent and with a per-counterparty limit of $160billion per d ay; the per -counterparty limit can be temporarily
increased at the discretion of the Chair.
(mo
re) 
F
or release at 2 p.m. EDT November 3, 2021 
-2-
oR
oll over at auction all principal payments from the Federal Reserve's
holdings of Treasury securities and reinvest all principal payments from
the Federal Reserve's holdings of agency debt and agency MBS in agency
MBS.
oAllow modest deviations from stated amounts for purchases andreinvestments, if needed for operational reasons.
oEngage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary tofacilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency MBS transactions.”
•In a related action, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System voted
unanimously to approve the establishment of the pri mary credit rate at the existing
level of 0.25 percent.
This inf ormation  will be  upda ted as appropriate to re flect decisions  of the Federal Open 
Market Committee o r the Board of Governors regarding  details of  the Federal R eserve’s 
operational tools and approach use d to implement monetary policy. 
More information regarding open market operations and reinvestments may be found on 
the Federal Reser ve Bank of New Yo rk’s website. 
